ITEM 1. Business. 
        HP is a leading global provider of products, technologies, software, solutions and services to individual consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. Our offerings span:
•
personal computing and other access devices; 
•
multi-vendor customer services, including infrastructure technology and business process outsourcing, technology support and maintenance, application development and support services and consulting and integration services; 
•
imaging and printing-related products and services; and 
•
enterprise information technology infrastructure, including enterprise server and storage technology, networking products and solutions, information technology ("IT") management software, information management solutions and security intelligence/risk management solutions. 
        HP was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the State of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard. Effective in May 1998, we changed our state of incorporation from California to Delaware. 
3

Table of Contents
HP Products and Services; Segment Information 
        Our operations are organized into seven business segments: Personal Systems (formerly known as the Personal Systems Group or "PSG"); Printing (formerly known as the Imaging and Printing Group or "IPG"); Services; Enterprise Servers, Storage and Networking ("ESSN"); Software; HP Financial Services ("HPFS"); and Corporate Investments. In each of the past three fiscal years, notebooks, desktops, printing supplies and infrastructure technology outsourcing services each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. In fiscal 2012 and 2011, industry standard servers also accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. 
        As part of a realignment of the structure of our business in fiscal 2012, we have structured the Personal Systems segment and the Printing segment beneath a newly formed Printing and Personal Systems Group ("PPS"). While PPS is not a financial reporting segment, we sometimes provide financial data aggregating the segments within it in order to provide a supplementary view of our business. 
        A summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments and business units is found in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. A discussion of factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
Printing and Personal Systems Group 
        The mission of PPS is to leverage the respective strengths of the Personal Systems business and the Printing business in creating a single, unified business that is customer-focused and poised to capitalize on rapidly shifting industry trends. Each of the business segments within PPS is described in detail below. 
Personal Systems 
        Personal Systems provides commercial personal computers ("PCs"), consumer PCs, workstations, calculators and other related accessories, software and services for the commercial and consumer markets. We group commercial notebooks, commercial desktops and workstations into commercial clients and consumer notebooks and consumer desktops into consumer clients when describing our performance in these markets. Like the broader PC market, Personal Systems continues to experience a shift toward mobile products such as notebooks. Both commercial and consumer PCs are based predominately on the Windows operating system and use Intel Corporation ("Intel") and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD") processors. 
        Commercial PCs.    Commercial PCs are optimized for commercial uses, including enterprise and SMB customers, and for connectivity and manageability in networked environments. Commercial PCs include the HP ProBook and the HP EliteBook lines of notebooks and the Compaq Pro, Compaq Elite, HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops, as well as the All-in-One TouchSmart and Omni PCs, HP Mini-Note PCs, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients and HP Slate Tablet PCs. 
        Consumer PCs.    Consumer PCs include the HP Pavilion, HP Elite, Envy and Compaq Presario series of multi-media consumer notebooks, desktops and mini notebooks, including the TouchSmart line of touch-enabled all-in-one notebooks and desktops. 
        Workstations.    Workstations are individual computing products designed for users demanding enhanced performance, such as computer animation, engineering design and other programs requiring high-resolution graphics. Personal Systems provides workstations that run on both Windows and Linux-based operating systems. 
4

Table of Contents
Printing 
        Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, media and scanning devices. Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial markets. These solutions range from managed print services to capturing high-value pages in areas such as industrial applications, outdoor signage, and the graphic arts business. 
        Inkjet and Web Solutions.    Inkjet and Web Solutions delivers HP's consumer and SMB inkjet solutions (hardware, supplies, media, web-connected hardware and services). It includes single-function and all-in-one inkjet printers targeted toward consumers and SMBs, as well as Snapfish and ePrintCenter. 
        LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions.    LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions delivers products, services and solutions to the SMB and enterprise segments, including LaserJet printers and supplies, multi-function devices, scanners, web-connected hardware and services and enterprise software solutions, such as Exstream Software and Web Jetadmin. 
        Managed Enterprise Solutions.    Managed Enterprise Solutions include managed print service products, support and solutions delivered to enterprise customers partnering with third-party software providers to offer workflow solutions in the enterprise environment. 
        Graphics Solutions.    Graphics Solutions include large format printing (Designjet and Scitex) and supplies, Indigo digital presses and supplies, inkjet high-speed production solutions and supplies, specialty printing systems and graphics services. Graphic Solutions targets print service providers, architects, engineers, designers, photofinishers, and industrial solution providers. 
Services 
        Services provides consulting, outsourcing and technology services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains. Services delivers to its clients by leveraging investments in consulting and support professionals, infrastructure technology, applications, standardized methodologies and global supply and delivery. Our services businesses also create opportunities for us to sell additional hardware and software by offering solutions that encompass both products and services. Services is divided into three main business units: infrastructure technology outsourcing, technology services and application and business services. 
        Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing.    Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing delivers comprehensive services that streamline and optimize our clients' infrastructure to efficiently enhance performance, reduce costs, mitigate risk and enable business change. These services encompass the data center, IT security, cloud-based computing, workplace technology, network, unified communications and enterprise service management. We also offer a set of managed services, providing a cross-section of our broader infrastructure services for smaller discrete engagements. 
        Technology Services.    Technology Services provides technology consulting and support services for transforming IT and converging and supporting IT infrastructure. The technology consulting portfolio includes strategic IT advisory services, cloud consulting services, unified communications solutions, data center transformation services and education consulting services. In addition to warranty support across our product lines, support services includes HP Foundation Care, our portfolio of reactive hardware and software support services; HP Proactive Care, which includes advanced remote system-monitoring tools, continuous onsite rapid response and direct access to our technical experts and resources; HP Datacenter Care for flexible customer support for HP and multivendor systems; and Lifecycle Event services, which are event-based services offering our technology expertise and consulting for each phase of the technology life cycle. Our technology services offerings are available in the form of service contracts, pre-packaged offerings (HP Care Pack services) or on an individual basis. 
5

Table of Contents
        Application and Business Services.    Application and Business Services helps clients develop, revitalize and manage their applications and information assets. This full application life cycle approach encompasses application development, testing, modernization, system integration, maintenance and management for both packaged and custom-built applications. The Application and Business Services portfolio also includes intellectual property-based industry solutions, services and technologies to help clients better manage critical business processes. We also offer services for customer relationship management, finance and administration, human resources, payroll and document processing. 
Enterprise Servers, Storage and Networking 
        ESSN provides server, storage and networking products that fulfill a wide range of customer needs and market requirements. Our Converged Infrastructure portfolio of servers, storage and networking combined with our Cloud Service Automation software suite creates the HP CloudSystem. This integrated solution enables enterprise and service-provider clients to deliver infrastructure, platform and software-as-a-service in a private, public or hybrid cloud environment. By providing a broad portfolio of server, storage and networking solutions, ESSN aims to optimize the combined product solutions required by different customers and provide solutions for a wide range of operating environments, spanning both the enterprise and the SMB markets. 
        Industry Standard Servers.    Industry Standard Servers offers primarily entry-level and mid-range ProLiant servers, which run primarily Windows, Linux and virtualization platforms from Microsoft, VMware, Inc. and other major vendors and leverage Intel and AMD x86 processors. The business spans a range of product lines that include pedestal-tower servers, density-optimized rack servers and our BladeSystem family of server blades. Industry Standard Servers also provides hyperscale solutions for large distributed computing companies who buy and deploy compute nodes at a massive scale. 
        Business Critical Systems.    Business Critical Systems delivers our mission-critical Converged Infrastructure with a portfolio of HP Integrity servers based on the Intel Itanium processor that run the HP-UX and OpenVMS operating systems, as well as HP Integrity NonStop solutions. Our Integrity servers feature scalable blades built on a blade infrastructure with our unique Blade Link technology and the Superdome 2 server solution. Business Critical Systems also offers our scale-up x86 ProLiant servers for scalability of systems with more than four industry standard processors. In addition, we continue to support the HP9000 servers and HP AlphaServers by offering customers the opportunity to upgrade these legacy systems to current HP Integrity systems. 
        Storage.    Our storage offerings include storage platforms for high-end, mid-range and small business environments. Our flagship product is the HP 3PAR StoreServ Storage Platform, which is designed for virtualization, cloud and IT-as-a-service. The Storage business has a broad range of products including storage area networks, network attached storage, storage management software and virtualization technologies, StoreOnce data deduplication solutions, tape drives and tape libraries. These offerings enable customers to optimize their existing storage systems, build new virtualization solutions and plan their transition to cloud computing. 
        Networking.    Our switch, router and wireless LAN products deliver open, scalable, secure, agile and consistent solutions for the data center, campus and branch networks. Our networking solutions are based on our FlexNetwork architecture, which is designed to enable simplified server virtualization, unified communications and multi-media application delivery for the enterprise. 
Software 
        Software provides enterprise information management solutions for both structured and unstructured data, IT management software, and security intelligence/risk management solutions. Solutions are delivered in the form of traditional software licenses, software-as-a-service, hybrid or 
6

Table of Contents
appliance deployment models. Augmented by support and professional services, our software solutions allow IT organizations to gain customer insight and optimize infrastructure, operations, application life cycles, application quality, security, IT services and business processes. In addition, these solutions help businesses proactively safeguard digital assets, comply with corporate and regulatory policies, and control internal and external security risks. 
HP Financial Services 
        HPFS supports and enhances our global product and service solutions, providing a broad range of value-added financial life cycle management services. HPFS enables our worldwide customers to acquire complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services. HPFS offers leasing, financing, utility programs and asset recovery services, as well as financial asset management services for large global and enterprise customers. HPFS also provides an array of specialized financial services to SMBs and educational and governmental entities. HPFS offers innovative, customized and flexible alternatives to balance unique customer cash flow, technology obsolescence and capacity needs. 
Corporate Investments 
        Corporate Investments includes business intelligence solutions, HP Labs, the webOS business and certain business incubation projects. Business intelligence solutions enable businesses to standardize on consistent data management schemes, connect and share data across the enterprise and apply analytics. 
Sales, Marketing and Distribution 
        We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by consumer and commercial customer groups, and purchases of HP products and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners, including:
•
retailers that sell our products to the public through their own physical or Internet stores; 
•
resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; 
•
distribution partners that supply our solutions to smaller resellers; 
•
original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products with their own hardware or software and sell the integrated products; 
•
independent software vendors ("ISVs") that provide their clients with specialized software products, and often assist us in selling our products and services to clients purchasing their products; 
•
systems integrators that provide various levels and kinds of expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with our services business to extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and 
•
advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and that typically partner with our services business on client solutions that require our unique products and services. 
        The mix of HP's business by channel or direct sales differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. HP is focused on driving the depth and breadth of its coverage in addition to efficiencies and productivity gains in both its direct and indirect businesses. So, while each HP business segment manages the execution of its own go-to-market and distribution 
7

Table of Contents
strategy, the business segments collaborate to ensure strategic and process alignment where appropriate. 
        For large enterprise customers, HP typically assigns an account manager, generally from ESSN or Services, to manage the customer relationship across HP. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers and for consumers, PPS manages direct online sales as well as channel relationships with retailers, while also leading coordination across the businesses for relationships with commercial resellers targeting SMBs. 
Manufacturing and Materials 
        We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers ("OMs") around the world to manufacture HP-designed products. The use of OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs manufacture products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. In addition to our use of OMs, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. 
        We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Configuring products to order permits configuration of units to the particular hardware and software customization requirements of customers. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing immediately prior to the sale or distribution of products to our customers. 
        We purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations in the event of a disruption). We are dependent upon Intel as a supplier of processors and Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") for various software products. However, we believe that disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. For processors, we also have a relationship with AMD, and we have continued to see solid acceptance of AMD processors in the market. 
        Like other participants in the high technology industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we experience significant price volatility and supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources. Frequently, we are able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on gross margin but does not disrupt production. We also acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. See "Risk Factors—We depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
International 
        Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis for both consumer and enterprise customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, allows us to drive economies of scale, provides revenue streams to offset geographic economic trends and offers us 
8

Table of Contents
an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that future growth is dependent in part on our ability to develop products and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base upon which to build such future growth. 
        A summary of our domestic and international net revenue and net property, plant and equipment is set forth in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 65% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2012 came from outside the United States. The substantial majority of our net revenue originating outside the United States was from customers other than foreign governments. 
        For a discussion of risks attendant to HP's foreign operations, see "Risk Factors—Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition," in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk" in Item 7A and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. 
Research and Development 
        We are committed to innovation as a key element of HP's culture. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences. 
        HP Labs, together with the various research and development groups within the five principal business segments, are responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part of our Corporate Investments segment. 
        Expenditures for research and development were $3.4 billion in fiscal 2012, $3.3 billion in fiscal 2011 and $3.0 billion in fiscal 2010. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to provide a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our competitive position. 
        For a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see "Risk Factors—If we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
Patents 
        Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2012 and 2011, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 36,000 patents, which represented a slight decrease over the number of patents in our patent portfolio at the end of fiscal 2010. 
        Patents generally have a term of twenty years from the time they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms on the individual patents vary. We believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to HP as a whole or to any of HP's business segments. 
9

Table of Contents
        In addition to developing our patents, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses under patents owned by us when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. 
        For a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "Risk Factors—Our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
Backlog 
        We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to the diversity of our products and services portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from shelf or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our overall business. 
Seasonality 
        General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our products experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales often are weaker in the summer months and consumer sales often are stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. See "Risk Factors—Our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
Competition 
        We encounter aggressive competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application Software, and Internet infrastructure offerings. 
        The markets for each of our business segments are characterized by vigorous competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will continue to be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. 
        On a revenue basis we are the largest company offering our range of personal computing and other access devices, consulting, outsourcing and technology services, imaging and printing-related products and services, and enterprise information technology infrastructure. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our principal business segments. 
        The competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below: 
        Personal Systems.    The areas in which Personal Systems operates are intensely competitive and are characterized by price competition and inventory depreciation. Our primary competitors for the branded personal computers are Lenovo Group Limited, Dell Inc., Acer Inc., ASUSTeK 
10

Table of Contents
Computer Inc., Apple Inc. and Toshiba Corporation. In particular regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white box" manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings and the availability of our broad-based distribution of products from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. 
        Printing.    The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printing's key customer segments each face competitive pressure from the market, specific to pricing and the introduction of new products. Key competitors include Canon U.S.A., Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation, Seiko Epson Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer refill and remanufactured alternatives for HP original inkjet and toner supplies, which are often available for lower prices and generally offer lower print quality and reliability. Other companies also have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for HP's laser and inkjet products, particularly outside of the United States where intellectual property protection is inadequate or ineffective. Printing is focused on growth through innovation and growing high-usage unit share by expanding color printing in the office, growing long-term high-value recurring business, accelerating the transition from analog to digital printing in graphics, commercial and production environments, driving web and mobile content solutions through our installed base of web-connected ePrinters and growing cloud-based, document centric commercial solutions and services. Our competitive advantages include our comprehensive solutions for the home, the office and the publishing environments, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand and the availability of our broad-based distribution of products from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. 
        Services.    Our services businesses, including HP Enterprise Services and Technology Services, compete in IT support services, consulting and integration, infrastructure technology outsourcing, business process outsourcing and application services. The IT support services and consulting and integration markets have been under significant pressure as our customers have reduced their IT budgets. However, this trend has benefited the outsourcing services business as customers drive toward lower IT management costs to enable more strategic investments. Our competitors include IBM Global Services, Computer Sciences Corporation, systems integration firms such as Accenture Ltd. and offshore companies such as Fujitsu Limited and India-based competitors Wipro Limited, Infosys Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. We also compete with other traditional hardware providers, such as Dell Inc., which are increasingly offering services to support their products. Many of our competitors are able to offer a wide range of global services, and some of our competitors enjoy significant brand recognition. Our services businesses team with many companies to offer services, and those arrangements allow us to extend our reach and augment our capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our deep technology expertise, such as multi-vendor environments, virtualization and automation, our strong track record of collaboration with clients and partners, and the combination of our expertise in infrastructure management with skilled global resources on platforms from SAP, Oracle and Microsoft, among others. 
        Enterprise Servers, Storage and Networking.    The areas in which ESSN operates are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. Our competitors range from broad solution providers such as International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") to more focused competitors such as EMC Corporation and NetApp, Inc. in storage, Cisco Systems, Inc. and Juniper Networks, Inc. in networking, and Dell Inc. in industry standard servers. We believe that our important competitive advantages in this segment include the six technology components of our converged infrastructure initiatives: IT systems, power and cooling, security, management, virtualization and automation. We believe that our competitive advantages also 
11

Table of Contents
include our global reach and our significant intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities. 
        Software.    The areas in which Software operates are fueled by rapidly changing customer requirements and technologies. We market enterprise IT management software in competition with IBM, CA, Inc., BMC Software, Inc. and others. Our information management solutions, including unstructured data analytics, information governance and digital marketing offerings, compete with products from companies like Adobe Systems Incorporated, IBM, EMC Corporation, Open Text Corporation, Oracle Corporation and Symantec Corporation. We also deliver enterprise security/risk intelligence solutions that compete with products from Symantec Corporation, IBM, Cisco Systems, Inc., and McAfee, Inc. As new delivery mechanisms such as software-as-a-service come on the scene, we are also confronting less traditional competitors. Our differentiation lies in the breadth and depth of our software and services portfolio and the scope of our market coverage. 
        HP Financial Services.    In our financing business, our competitors are captive financing companies, mainly IBM Global Financing, as well as banks and financial institutions. We believe our competitive advantage in this business over banks and financial institutions is our ability to finance products, services and total solutions. 
        For a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see "Risk Factors—Competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
Environment 
        Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. 
        Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Some of our products also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. We also are subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, they could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, including fines. 
        Our operations and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations and international treaties relating to climate change. As these laws, regulations and treaties and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that HP technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with these related laws, regulations and treaties. 
12

Table of Contents
        We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. 
        The liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when HP considers it probable and can reasonably estimate the costs. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse effect on HP's operations or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. 
        For a discussion of risks attendant to these environmental factors, see "Risk Factors—Unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
Executive Officers: 
R. Todd Bradley; age 54; Executive Vice President, Printing and Personal Systems Group 
        Mr. Bradley has served as Executive Vice President of HP's Printing and Personal Systems Group since March 2012. Previously, Mr. Bradley served as Executive Vice President of HP's Personal Systems Group from June 2005 to March 2012. 
David A. Donatelli; age 47; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Group 
        Mr. Donatelli has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of HP's Enterprise Group since its formation in March 2012 after having served in the same role for HP's Enterprise Servers, Storage and Networking business since May 2009 and for HP's Technology Services business since June 2011. Previously, Mr. Donatelli served as President of the storage division of EMC Corporation, an information technology company, from September 2007 to April 2009. 
Henry Gomez; age 49; Executive Vice President and Chief Communications Officer 
        Mr. Gomez has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Communications Officer since January 2012. Previously, he ran HSG Communications, a consulting business that he founded in September 2008. He also served on the leadership team of Meg Whitman's gubernatorial campaign from 2008 to December 2010. For most of the previous decade, he worked at eBay in a variety of roles including Senior Vice President for Corporate Communications and President of Skype. Mr. Gomez also serves as a director of BJ's Restaurants, Inc. 
John M. Hinshaw; age 42; Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations 
        Mr. Hinshaw has served as Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations since November 2011. Previously, Mr. Hinshaw served as Vice President and General Manager of Information Solutions at The Boeing Company, an aerospace company, from January 2011 to October 2011 and as Global Chief Information Officer for Boeing from June 2007 to December 2010. 
Martin J. Homlish; age 60; Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer 
        Mr. Homlish has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since May 2011. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at SAP AG, a software company, from 2000 until April 2011. 
13

Table of Contents
Abdo George Kadifa; age 53; Executive Vice President, HP Software 
        Mr. Kadifa has served as Executive Vice President of HP Software since May 2012. Previously, he served as a director of Silver Lake, a private equity firm, from June 2007 to May 2012. 
Tracy S. Keogh; age 51; Executive Vice President, Human Resources 
        Ms. Keogh has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources since April 2011. Previously, Ms. Keogh served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Hewitt Associates, a provider of human resources consulting services, from May 2007 until March 2011. 
Catherine A. Lesjak; age 53; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
        Ms. Lesjak has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2007. Ms. Lesjak served as HP's interim Chief Executive Officer from August 2010 until November 2010. 
Marc A. Levine; age 52; Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer 
        Mr. Levine has served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer since March 2012. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Operating Officer for HP's enterprise services business from April 2010 to March 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Levine served as Vice President of Finance for HP's Enterprise Business from December 2006 to March 2010. 
John N. McMullen; age 54; Senior Vice President and Treasurer 
        Mr. McMullen has served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer since March 2007. Mr. McMullen also serves as a director of Vocera Communications, Inc. 
Michael G. Nefkens; age 43; Executive Vice President, Enterprise Services 
        Mr. Nefkens has served as Executive Vice President, Enterprise Services, since December 2012. Previously, he served in that role in an acting capacity since August 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Nefkens served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Enterprise Services in the EMEA region from November 2009 to August 2012, after having served in client-facing roles for some of Enterprise Services' largest clients since joining the business in 2001. 
John F. Schultz; age 48; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 
        Mr. Schultz has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since April 2012. Previously, he served as HP's Deputy General Counsel for Litigation, Investigations and Global Functions from September 2008 to April 2012. From March 2005 to September 2008, Mr. Schultz was a partner in the litigation practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, where, among other clients, he supported HP as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters. 
William L. Veghte; age 45; Chief Operating Officer 
        Mr. Veghte has served as Chief Operating Officer since May 2012. Previously, Mr. Veghte served as Executive Vice President of HP Software from May 2010 to May 2012. Prior to joining HP, Mr. Veghte served as Senior Vice President of the Windows business group at Microsoft Corporation, a software company, from February 2008 until January 2010 after having served in various other positions at Microsoft since joining the company in 1990, including Vice President, North America from August 2004 to February 2008. 
14

Table of Contents
Margaret C. Whitman; age 56; President and Chief Executive Officer 
        Ms. Whitman has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2011. She has also served as a member of the Board of Directors of HP since January 2011. From March 2011 to September 2011, Ms. Whitman served as a part-time strategic advisor to Kleiner, Perkins, Caulfield & Byers, a private equity firm. Previously, Ms. Whitman served as President and Chief Executive Officer of eBay Inc., an online marketplace and payments company, from 1998 to March 2008. Ms. Whitman also serves as a director of The Procter & Gamble Company and Zipcar, Inc. 
Employees 
        We had approximately 331,800 employees worldwide as of October 31, 2012. 
Available Information 
        Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://www.hp.com/investor/home, as soon as reasonably practicable after HP electronically files such reports with, or furnishes those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" also are available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from: 
Hewlett-Packard Company Attention: Investor Relations 3000 Hanover Street Palo Alto, CA 94304 http://www.hp.com/investor/informationrequest 
Additional Information 
        Microsoft® and Windows® are U.S.-registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Intel®, Itanium®, Intel Itanium® and Pentium® are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries
