
General 
We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (“IP”) based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (“IT”) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are installed at enterprise businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies and other service providers, commercial businesses, and personal residences. 
We conduct our business globally and manage our business by geography. As we strive for faster decision making with greater accountability and alignment to support our emerging countries and our five foundational priorities, as discussed later, beginning in fiscal 2012, we organized our business into the following three geographic segments: The Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (“APJC”). In fiscal 2011, we organized our business into four segments: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, and Asia Pacific Markets. The Emerging Markets segment then consisted of Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States. As a result of the geographic segment change in fiscal 2012, countries within the former Emerging Markets segment were consolidated into either the EMEA segment or the Americas segment, depending on their respective geographic locations. We have reclassified the geographic segment data for prior years to conform to the current year’s presentation. For revenue and other information regarding these segments, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this report. 
 
1 

Table of Contents
As part of our business focus on the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT, our products and services are designed to help our customers use technology to address their business imperatives and opportunities—improving productivity and user experience, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage—and to help them connect more effectively with their key stakeholders, including their customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. We deliver networking products and solutions designed to simplify and secure customers’ network infrastructures. We also deliver products and solutions that leverage the network to most effectively address market transitions and customer requirements—including in recent periods, virtualization, cloud, collaboration, and video. We believe that integrating multiple network services into and across our products helps our customers reduce their operational complexity, increase their agility and reduce their total cost of network ownership. As a result of the re-categorization of our product offerings in fiscal 2012, our products and technologies are grouped into the following categories: Switching, Next-Generation Network (“NGN”) Routing, Collaboration, Service Provider Video, Wireless, Security, Data Center, and Other Products. In fiscal 2011, our product categories consisted of Routing, Switching, New Products, and Other Products. 
Network architectures, built on core routing and switching technologies, are evolving to accommodate the demands of increasing numbers of users, network applications and new network-related markets. These new markets are a natural extension of our core business and have emerged as the network has become the platform for provisioning, integrating and delivering an ever-increasing array of IT-based products and services. 
Strategy and Focus Areas 
We began in fiscal 2011, and had largely completed by the end of fiscal 2012, realigning our sales, services and engineering organizations in order to simplify our operating model, drive faster innovation, and focus on our five foundational priorities: 
 

 

 

 

 

We believe that focusing on these priorities best positions us to continue to expand our share of our customers’ information technology spending. 
We continue to undergo product transitions in our core business, including the introduction of next-generation products with higher price performance and architectural advantages compared with both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth across these next-generation product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business conditions and, therefore, may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that these newly introduced products may continue to negatively impact product gross margins, which we are currently striving to address through various initiatives including value engineering, effective supply chain management, and delivering greater customer value through offers that include hardware, software, and services. 
We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions. Market transitions relating to the network are becoming, in our view, more significant as intelligent networks have moved from being a mere cost center issue—that is, where the focus is on reducing network operating costs and increasing network-related productivity—to becoming, additionally and increasingly, a platform for improved revenue generation as well as driving business agility and strategy execution. 
 
2 

Table of Contents
Market transitions for which we are primarily focused include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, networked mobility technologies and the transition from Internet Protocol Version 4 to Internet Protocol Version 6. For example, a market in which a significant market transition is under way is the enterprise data center market, where a transition to virtualization / the cloud is rapidly evolving. There is a continued growing awareness that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows: 
 

 

This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) and other-as-a-service (“XaaS”) solutions. 
The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing. Very large, well-financed, and aggressive competitors are each bringing their own new class of products to address this new market. We expect this competitive market trend to continue. With respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers. 
We believe that the architectural approach that we have undertaken in the enterprise data center market is adaptable to other markets. An example of a market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices. A key term in this mobility-centered market transition is “BYOD,” an acronym for “bring your own device,” which, in the context of IT usage in companies, universities, and other organizations, refers to the growing trend of employees, customers, students and others associated with such entities to bring and use their own laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, or other mobile devices for their work or participation, instead of using equipment provided by the organization. 
 
3 

Table of Contents
With regard to this market transition, to help such organizations meet the demands of increasing BYOD usage, our product development strategy involves a comprehensive architectural approach that will allow for, among other things, a unified security policy across the whole organization; a simplified operations and network management structure that understands application performance from a user’s perspective, enhances troubleshooting capability and lowers network operating costs; and an uncompromised user experience over the organization’s entire wireless and wired network that embraces use of any kind of device. Our mobility-related products and solutions reflect this architectural-based approach. 
Other market transitions for which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads and appear to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, as customers evolve their communications and business models. More generally, we are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers. 
Another market transition on which we are focusing is the move toward more programmable, flexible and virtual networks. This move to network programmability encompasses technologies such as software-defined-networking and is focused on moving from a hardware-centric approach for networking to a virtualized network environment that is designed to enable flexible, application-driven customization of network infrastructures. We believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine application-specific-integrated-circuits (“ASICs”) with hardware and software elements together to meet customers’ total cost of ownership, quality, security, scalability and experience requirements. In our view, there is no single architecture that supports all customer requirements in this area. Our strategy is targeted to address a broad range of specific customer use cases. 
Recently, we announced an additional set of network programmability capabilities with the announcement of the Cisco Open Network Environment, or Cisco ONE, including overlay network technology, application programming interfaces (“APIs”) and network-operation tools called agents and controllers. In our view, this evolution is in its very early stages and presents an opportunity for Cisco. We intend to continue to drive internal innovation, partner for co-development and make strategic investments to lead this evolution. 
For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer.” For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
4 

Table of Contents
Products and Services 
Our current offerings fall into several categories: 
Switching 
Switching is an integral networking technology used in campuses, branch offices, and data centers. Switches are used within buildings in local-area networks (“LANs”) and across great distances in wide-area networks (“WANs”). Our switching products offer many forms of connectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, access points, and servers and also function as aggregators on LANs and WANs. Our switching systems employ several widely used technologies, including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Fibre Channel over Ethernet (“FCoE”), Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and Multiprotocol Label Switching. Many of our switches are designed to support an integrated set of advanced services, allowing organizations to be more efficient by using one switch for multiple networking functions rather than multiple switches to accomplish the same functions. Key product platforms within our Switching product category, in which we also include storage products, are as follows: 
 

Fixed-configuration switches are designed to cover a range of deployments in small and medium-sized businesses. Our fixed-configuration switches are designed to provide a foundation for converged data, voice, and video services. They range from small, standalone switches to stackable models that function as a single, scalable switching unit. 
Modular switches are typically utilized by enterprise and service provider customers. These products offer flexibility and scalability for these customers, which due to their large-scale network demands often need to deploy numerous, concurrent intelligent networking services without degrading overall performance. 
Fixed-configuration and modular switches also include products such as optics modules which are shared across multiple product platforms. 
During fiscal 2012, we introduced what we believe to be the industry’s most advanced and versatile portfolio of modular, fixed-configuration, blade, and virtual LAN switches for campus, branch, and data center deployments. Individually, these switches are designed to offer the performance and features required for nearly any deployment, from traditional small workgroups, wiring closets, and network cores to highly virtualized and converged corporate data centers. Working together, these switches are, in our view, the building blocks of an integrated network that delivers scalable and intelligent services protecting, optimizing, and growing as a customer’s business needs evolve. We also recently introduced a versatile and broad approach to network programmability, called Cisco ONE, aimed at helping customers drive the next wave of business innovation through trends such as cloud, mobility, social networking, and video. Cisco ONE is designed to enable flexible, application-driven customization of network infrastructures to help businesses realize objectives such as increased service velocity, resource optimization, and faster monetization of new services. 
 
5 

Table of Contents
NGN Routing 
Routing technology is fundamental to the Internet, and this technology interconnects public and private IP networks for mobile, data, voice, and video applications. Our NGN Routing products are designed to enhance the intelligence, security, reliability, scalability, and level of performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications. We offer a broad range of routers, from core network infrastructure and mobile Internet network for service providers and enterprises to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home. Key product areas within our NGN Routing category are as follows: 
 

During fiscal 2012, we experienced strong adoption of our latest edge and core routing platforms, Cisco ASR 9000 and Cisco CRS-3, respectively. We continue to provide further enhancements to our NGN Routing portfolio with the aim of supporting the next-generation Internet and enabling compelling new experiences for consumers, new revenue opportunities for service providers, and new ways to collaborate in the workplace.
Service Provider Video 
Our end-to-end, digital video distribution systems and digital interactive set-top boxes enable service providers and content originators to deliver entertainment, information, and communication services to consumers and businesses around the world. Key product areas within our Service Provider Video category are as follows: 
Set-Top Boxes 


Cable Modem CPE (Data, EMTA, and Gateways) 
Cable Modem Termination Systems Products 
Videoscape Software Products 
Headend Equipment (Encoders, Decoders, and Transcoders) 
On July 30, 2012, we acquired NDS Group Limited (“NDS”), a leading provider of video content security and software solutions designed to enable users to intuitively view, search and navigate digital content. NDS has a strong recurring revenue stream and we expect the acquisition of NDS to complement and accelerate the delivery of Cisco Videoscape, Cisco’s comprehensive platform that enables service providers and media companies to deliver next-generation entertainment experiences. With the NDS acquisition, we aim to broaden our opportunities in the service provider market and to expand our reach into emerging markets such as China and India, countries where NDS has an established customer presence. 
 
6 

Table of Contents
Collaboration 
Our Collaboration portfolio integrates voice, video, data and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks across a wide range of devices and endpoints including mobile phones, tablets, desktop and laptop computers, and desktop virtualization clients. Key products areas within our Collaboration category are as follows: 
Unified Communications: 




Cisco TelePresence Systems 
During fiscal 2012, we continued the evolution of our Collaboration portfolio. We expanded the WebEx family of products to include WebEx Social, a cloud-based enterprise social platform; WebEx Meetings, a meeting place with file and social networking capabilities; and WebEx TelePresence, a cloud-based offering provided as a service. We introduced new additions to the Cisco TelePresence portfolio including the MX300 system, designed to extend Cisco TelePresence to more offices and meeting spaces; and the TX9000, a new three-screen immersive platform that is designed to deliver the highest quality video experience and industry-leading collaboration capabilities with advanced content sharing and interactive features. 
Security 
Security is a significant business concern and we believe it is a top investment priority for our customers. Security threats continue to escalate, resulting in the loss of revenue, intellectual property, and reputation. Cisco security solutions deliver identity, network and content security solutions designed to enable customers to reduce the impact of threats and realize the benefits of a mobile, collaborative, and cloud-enabled business. Our products in this category span firewall, intrusion prevention, remote access, virtual private networks (“VPNs”), unified clients, network admission control, web gateways, and email gateways. Our AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client solution enables users to access networks with their mobile device of choice, such as laptops and smartphone-based mobile devices, while allowing organizations to manage the security risks of networks. Our cloud-based web security service is designed to provide real-time threat protection and to prevent malware from reaching corporate networks, including roaming or mobile users. We focus on a proactive, layered approach to counter both existing and emerging security threats. We provide security solutions that are designed to be integrated, timely, comprehensive, and effective, helping to ensure holistic security for organizations worldwide. 
During fiscal 2012, we introduced the Cisco ASA 5500-X Series Midrange Security Appliance, Cisco Security Manager 4.3, the IPS 4500 Series, and Prime Security Manager. We are also improving the security of all our product lines by securing the supply chain throughout the entire product lifecycle, from inception to disposal. A strong security focus is forefront across our engineering processes as we implement our products under what we refer to as the Cisco Secure Development Lifecycle process, an IT-based supply chain management process. Specific product security enhancements currently being designed into our platforms include Anchored Secure Boot technology and anti-tamper technology to store keys and provide functions to enhance the overall security of the platform. 
Wireless 
The Cisco Unified Wireless Network aims to harness the intelligence of the network to solve business problems, uniting high-performance wireless access across campus, branch, remote and outdoor environments. Our offerings include wireless access points (including the Cisco Aironet product family), controllers, antennas, and integrated management. Our offerings provide users with simplified management and mobile device troubleshooting features which are designed to reduce operational cost and maximize flexibility and reliability. We are also investing in custom chipsets to deliver innovative functions such as CleanAir proactive spectrum intelligence, ClientLink acceleration for mobile devices and VideoStream multicast optimization technology. 
 
7 

Table of Contents
Data Center 
Our Data Center product category has been our fastest growing major product category for the past two fiscal years. Cisco Unified Computing System (“UCS”) and Server Access Virtualization form the core of the Data Center product category. Key product areas within our Data Center product category are as follows: 
UCS 



Server Access Virtualization 
The UCS platform unites computing, network, storage access, and virtualization into a centrally managed and automated system. During fiscal 2012 we made significant expansions to the computing and high-performance virtual switching capability of UCS with the introduction of seven new server models and a new generation of fabric interconnects and virtualized interface cards. These innovations are designed to further our strategy of enabling customers to consolidate both physical and virtualized workloads with unique application requirements onto a single unified, scalable, centrally managed and automated system. Our strategy has resulted in a portfolio of standalone and converged infrastructure solutions designed to preserve customer choice, accelerate business initiatives, reduce risk, lower the cost of IT, and represent a comprehensive solution when collectively deployed. 
Other Products 
Our Other Products category primarily consists of Linksys home networking products, certain emerging technologies, and other networking products. 
Service 
In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. 
Technical support services help ensure that our products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system software that we have developed. These services help customers protect their network investments and minimize downtime for systems running mission-critical applications. A key example of this is our Cisco Smart Services offering, which leverages the intelligence from Cisco’s over fifty million devices and customer connections to protect and optimize network investment for our customers and partners. 
Advanced services are services that are part of a comprehensive program that is designed to provide responsive, preventive, and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs. The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions, and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors. 
Customers and Markets 
Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and the business applications deployed throughout the customer’s network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment. In each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10% or more of our net sales. Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and public sector. 
 
8 

Table of Contents
Enterprise 
Enterprise businesses are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ 1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multivendor environment. We strive to take advantage of the network-as-a-platform strategy to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services primarily through our service provider partners. We sell these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners, as well as selling directly to these customers.
Service Providers 
Service providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide. They include regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless providers. We also group media, broadcast, and content-providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, mobility, and network management products, systems, and services for their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business customers. Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks, which requirements are addressed, we believe, by our architectural approach. 
Commercial 
Generally, we define commercial businesses as companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within the commercial market are primarily served by our channel partners. 
Public Sector 
Public sector entities include federal governments, state and local governments, as well as educational institution customers. Many public sector entities have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multivendor environment. We sell to public sector entities through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners, as well as selling directly to these customers.
Sales Overview 
As of the end of fiscal 2012, our worldwide sales and marketing departments consisted of 24,507 employees, including managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in 93 countries, and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail partners. 
Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems integrators. 
 
9 

Table of Contents
Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. 
For information regarding risks related to our channels, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins” and “Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins.” 
For information regarding risks relating to our international operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment”; “Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations”; “Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition”; “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows”; and “Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results,” among others. 
Our service offerings complement our products through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and maintenance services, including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers. 
Financing Arrangements 
We provide financing arrangements for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our financing arrangements include the following: 
Leases: 



Loans 
Financed service contracts 
For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Product Backlog 
Our product backlog at July 28, 2012, the last day of our 2012 fiscal year, was approximately $5.0 billion, compared with product backlog of approximately $4.5 billion at July 30, 2011, the last day of our 2011 fiscal year. The product backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our product backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual net product sales for any future period. 
 
10 

Table of Contents
Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances 
The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The combination of technological complexity and rapid change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden the range of products and services we deliver to customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. We employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and services: 
 

 

 

 

Acquisitions 
We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.” 
Investments in Privately Held Companies 
We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that provide strategic value. The risks associated with these investments are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings.” 
Strategic Alliances 
We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. Currently, we have strategic alliances with the following companies or subsidiaries thereof: 
Accenture Ltd; AT&T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; EMC Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; NetApp, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nokia Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; SAP AG; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VCE Company, LLC; VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; Xerox Corporation; and others. 
Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. The risks associated with our strategic alliances are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may not realize the expected benefits from such alliances, and we may experience increased competition or delays in product development.” 
 
11 

Table of Contents
Competition 
We compete in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our new product markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. 
Our competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; Dell Inc.; D-Link Corporation; LM Ericsson Telephone Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; LogMeIn, Inc.; Meru Networks, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. (acquired by Google, Inc. in May 2012); Motorola Solutions, Inc.; NETGEAR, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; and Symantec Corporation; among others. 
Some of these companies compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were siloed. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards-based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. 
The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
12 

Table of Contents

 

 

We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. Therefore, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition, and accordingly affect our chances of success. 
Research and Development 
We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research and development budget among our product categories, which consist of switching, NGN routing, collaboration, service provider video, wireless, security, data center, and other product technologies, for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $5.5 billion, $5.8 billion, and $5.3 billion in fiscal 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. These expenditures are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of focus are tied to our foundational priorities and include, but are not limited to, our core routing and switching products and the Cisco Unified Computing System and other products related to the data center. Our expenditures for research and development costs were expensed as incurred. 
The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue developing products that meet key industry standards and to support important protocol standards as they emerge, such as IP Version 6. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and technological changes or that those products will achieve market acceptance. 
Manufacturing 
We rely on contract manufacturers for all of our manufacturing needs. During fiscal 2012, we completed the sale of our manufacturing operations relating to set-top boxes to a contract manufacturer located in Juarez, Mexico, in furtherance of our strategic objective to simplify our operating model. We presently use a variety of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to configure products that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards. 
Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any significant long-term contracts with any manufacturing service provider. 
 
13 

Table of Contents
We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis, primarily annually. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time, defined as less than one year. 
Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing 
We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws. 
Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. 
The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce,” “We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others,” and “We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.” 
 
14 

Table of Contents
Employees 
Employees are summarized as follows: 
 


We consider the relationships with our employees to be positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future. 
Executive Officers of the Registrant 
The following table shows the name, age and position as of August 31, 2012 of each of our executive officers: 
 

Mr. Calderoni joined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Solutions Finance. He was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage networking solutions. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002. Prior to that, he was employed by IBM Corporation where he held a number of executive positions. Mr. Calderoni also serves on the Board of Directors of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 
Mr. Chambers has served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006 and as a member of the Board of Directors since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers was promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations. 
 
15 

Table of Contents
Mr. Chandler joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco’s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco’s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, and in May 2012 was appointed Chief Compliance Officer. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation. 
Ms. Christie joined Cisco in August 1999 as part of Cisco’s Investor Relations team. From April 2000 through December 2003, Ms. Christie held a number of managerial positions within Cisco’s Investor Relations function. In January 2004, Ms. Christie was promoted to Vice President, Investor Relations. In June 2006, Ms. Christie was appointed to Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2008, Ms. Christie was promoted to Senior Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2011, Ms. Christie was appointed to her current position. 
Mr. Elfrink joined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Cisco Services in Europe. In November 2000 he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Cisco Services and took over global responsibility for the function, relocating to San Jose, California. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalisation Officer in December 2006 and moved to Bangalore India to establish Cisco’s Globalisation Centre East. In August 2007 he was named Executive Vice President. In February 2011, Mr. Elfrink was appointed to his current position, in which he heads three of Cisco’s global initiatives: Cisco’s Emerging Solutions and Emerging Countries initiatives, and Cisco’s globalisation strategy. 
Mr. Lloyd joined Cisco in November 1994 as General Manager of Cisco Canada. In October 1998, he was promoted to Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa); in February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, EMEA; and in July 2005, Mr. Lloyd was appointed Senior Vice President, US, Canada and Japan. In April 2009, he was promoted to his current position. 
Mr. Moore joined Cisco in October 2001 as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services. In August 2007, he also assumed responsibility as co-lead of Cisco Services. In May 2010, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Cisco Services. In February 2011, Mr. Moore was appointed to his current position. Immediately before joining Cisco, Mr. Moore served for approximately two years as chief executive officer of Netigy Corporation, a network consulting company. Prior to that, he was employed by Electronic Data Systems where he held a number of executive positions. 
Mr. Patel joined Cisco in July 1996 upon Cisco’s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., serving from July 1996 through September 1999 as a Senior Director of Engineering. From November 1999 through January 2003, he served as Senior Vice President of Engineering at Redback Networks Inc., a networking equipment provider later acquired by Ericsson. In January 2003, Mr. Patel rejoined Cisco as Vice President and General Manager, Cable Business Unit, and was promoted to Senior Vice President in July 2005. In January 2006, Mr. Patel was named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Service Provider and, additionally, in May 2011 became co-leader of Engineering. In June 2012, Mr. Patel assumed the leadership of Engineering. In August 2012, Mr. Patel was promoted to his current position. 
Mr. Pond joined Cisco in September 1993 upon Cisco’s acquisition of Crescendo Communications, Inc. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of Cisco’s Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems, and he was named Executive Vice President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications. 
