
General

Pfizer Inc. is a research-based, global biopharmaceutical company. We apply science and our global resources to improve health and well-being at every stage of life. We strive to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery, development and manufacturing of medicines for people and animals. Our diversified global healthcare portfolio includes human and animal biologic and small molecule medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer products. Every day, we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We also collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our products, as well as through alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered by other companies (Alliance revenues). The majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products.

The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 2, 1942. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Pfizer,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 (2012 Form 10-K) refer to Pfizer Inc. and its subsidiaries. References to developed markets in this 2012 Form 10-K include the United States (U.S.), Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia, Scandinavia, South Korea, Finland and New Zealand; and references to emerging markets in this 2012 Form 10-K include the rest of the world, including, among other countries, China, Brazil, Mexico, Turkey, Russia and India. 

In July 2011, we announced our decision to explore strategic alternatives for our Animal Health and Nutrition businesses.

On February 6, 2013, an initial public offering (IPO) of our subsidiary, Zoetis Inc. (Zoetis), was completed, pursuant to which we sold 99.015 million shares of Zoetis in exchange for the retirement of approximately $2.5 billion of Pfizer commercial paper issued on January 10, 2013. The IPO represented approximately 19.8% of the total outstanding Zoetis shares. On February 1, 2013, Zoetis shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “ZTS.” Prior to and in connection with the IPO, Zoetis completed a $3.65 billion senior notes offering and we transferred to Zoetis substantially all of the assets and liabilities of our Animal Health business. For additional details, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 19A. Subsequent Events: Zoetis Debt Offering and Initial Public Offering in our 2012 Financial Report, as well as Other Products—Animal Health below.

We may in the future make a tax-free distribution to our shareholders of all or a portion of our remaining equity interest in Zoetis, which may include one or more distributions effected as a dividend to all Pfizer shareholders, one or more distributions in exchange for Pfizer shares or other securities, or any combination thereof. We will consider all alternatives to maximize the after-tax return for our shareholders, including a tax-free distribution to our shareholders. If pursued, any disposition would be subject to various conditions, including receipt of any necessary regulatory or other approvals and the existence of satisfactory market conditions. 

On November 30, 2012, we completed the sale of our Nutrition business to Nestlé for $11.85 billion in cash. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Divestitures in our 2012 Financial Report, as well as Other Products—Nutrition below. 

On August 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Capsugel business for approximately $2.4 billion in cash. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Divestitures in our 2012 Financial Report.

On January 31, 2011, we acquired King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King) and, in accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 reflect approximately 11 months of King’s U.S. operations and approximately ten months of King’s international operations. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Acquisitions in our 2012 Financial Report.

If we decide to fully separate Zoetis, then, following such separation, we will be a global biopharmaceutical company with an innovative core (our Primary Care, Specialty Care and Oncology business units) and a value core (our Established 

1



Products business unit) in developed markets, with different cost structures and operating drivers. Our Emerging Markets business unit has a geographic focus that includes both the innovative and value cores in those markets. The innovative core includes a portfolio of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line products and an R&D organization focused on continuing to build a robust pipeline of highly differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical needs. The value core includes a portfolio of products that have lost exclusivity or are approaching the loss of exclusivity that help meet the global need for less expensive, quality medicines. In addition, we have a complementary Consumer Healthcare business with several well-known brands. 

For a further discussion of our strategy and our business development initiatives, see the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategy and —Our Business Development Initiatives sections of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) in our 2012 Financial Report.

Pfizer Website

This 2012 Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are available on our website (www.pfizer.com), in text format and, where applicable, in interactive data file format, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Throughout this 2012 Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information from other documents filed or to be filed with the SEC, including our Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (2013 Proxy Statement) and the 2012 Financial Report, portions of which are filed as Exhibit 13 to this 2012 Form 10-K, and which also will be contained in Appendix A to our 2013 Proxy Statement (2012 Financial Report). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders consists of the 2012 Financial Report and the Corporate and Shareholder Information attached to the 2013 Proxy Statement. Our 2012 Financial Report will be available on our website (www.pfizer.com) on or about February 28, 2013. Our 2013 Proxy Statement will be available on our website (www.pfizer.com) on or about March 14, 2013.

Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our Directors; information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; Board Committees; Committee Charters; the Lead Independent Director Charter; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and Officers; as well as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications, are available on our website (www.pfizer.com). We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. Information relating to shareholder services, including the Computershare Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website (www.pfizer.com).

The information contained on our website does not constitute a part of this 2012 Form 10-K.

Operating Segments

We manage our operations through five operating segments—Primary Care; Specialty Care and Oncology; Established Products and Emerging Markets; Animal Health; and Consumer Healthcare. As of the third quarter of 2012, the Animal Health and Consumer Healthcare business units are no longer managed as a single operating segment. Each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain research and development activities related to in-line products and in-process research and development (IPR&D) projects that generally have achieved proof-of-concept.

We regularly review our segments and the approach used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources. Generally, products are transferred to the Established Products business unit in the beginning of the fiscal year following loss of patent protection or marketing exclusivity.

A description of each of our five operating segments follows:



2



genitourinary, major depressive disorder, pain, respiratory and smoking cessation. Examples of products in this segment in 2012 include Celebrex, Chantix/Champix, Eliquis, Lipitor (in certain European Union (EU) countries and in Australia and New Zealand), Lyrica, Premarin, Pristiq and Viagra. All revenues for these products are allocated to the Primary Care business unit, except those generated in emerging markets and those that are managed by the Established Products business unit.

Beginning in 2012, sales of Lipitor in the U.S., Canada, South Korea and Japan were reported in our Established Products business unit and beginning in 2013, sales of Lipitor in Australia and most of developed Europe are being reported in our Established Products business unit.

















For a further discussion of our operating segments, including certain costs that are not allocated to our operating segment results, as well as comparative segment information for 2012, 2011 and 2010, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information, including the tables therein captioned Selected income statement information, Geographic Information and Significant Product Revenues in our 2012 Financial Report and the 

3



table captioned Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area in the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference.

Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., the principal authority regulating our operations is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research, quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising and product labeling. Similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the government also regulates our prices. See Government Regulation and Price Constraints below.

Biopharmaceutical Products

Our biopharmaceutical business is comprised of the following five business units: Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets. For further information regarding these business units, see Operating Segments above, and for a discussion of certain of our key biopharmaceutical products, including Lyrica, Lipitor, Enbrel, Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13, Celebrex, Viagra, Norvasc, Zyvox, Sutent, and the Premarin family, see the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptions section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report.

Revenues from biopharmaceutical products contributed approximately 87% of our total revenues in 2012, 88% of our total revenues in 2011 and 90% of our total revenues in 2010.

We recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of 10 biopharmaceutical products in 2012, each of 12 biopharmaceutical products in 2011 and each of 15 biopharmaceutical products in 2010. These products represented 49% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2012, 56% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2011 and 60% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2010. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Products below.

Worldwide revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2012 were $51.2 billion, a decrease of 11% compared to 2011, primarily due to the decrease of $7.6 billion in operational revenues from Lipitor, Geodon, Xalatan, Caduet, Aromasin and Detrol, and lower Alliance revenues for Aricept, all due to the loss of exclusivity in certain markets, and from lower Alliance revenues for Spiriva due to the final-year terms of our collaboration agreements in certain European countries, Canada and Australia; lower revenues for Effexor and Zosyn/Tazocin; and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.3 billion, or 2%. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in operational revenues in developed markets for certain biopharmaceutical products, particularly Lyrica, Celebrex, and Enbrel, and in revenues from emerging markets.

Geographically, in the U.S., revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased 17% in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily reflecting lower revenues from Lipitor, Geodon, Caduet, Xalatan and Aromasin, all due to the loss of exclusivity; lower Alliance revenues due to loss of exclusivity of Aricept 5mg and 10mg tablets in November 2010; and lower revenues from Effexor, Zosyn and Detrol/Detrol LA. The impact of these adverse factors was partially offset by the strong performance of certain other biopharmaceutical products, lower reductions related to rebates and the lower reduction in revenues related to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (commonly referred to as the Affordable Care Act, or ACA).

For additional information regarding the impact of the ACA on our revenues, see the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—U.S. Healthcare Legislation section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report.

In our international markets, revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased 7% in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to the loss of exclusivity of Lipitor in most of developed Europe and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3%. Operationally, revenues decreased 4% in 2012 compared to 2011. In addition to Lipitor, the decrease in operational revenues was driven by Xalatan/Xalacom, Aricept and Aromasin, all due to the loss of exclusivity in certain markets, as well as lower Alliance revenues, primarily due to the loss of exclusivity of Aricept in many major European markets and lower revenues for Spiriva in certain European countries, Canada and Australia (reflecting the final-year terms of our Spiriva collaboration agreements relating to those countries), as well as lower revenues for Norvasc and Effexor. The impact of these adverse factors was partially offset by the strong operational growth of Lyrica, Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 and Enbrel. 

During 2012, international revenues from biopharmaceutical products represented 62% of total revenues from biopharmaceutical products, compared to 59% in 2011.


4



For additional information, see the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical Revenues section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report.

Other Products

Animal Health

Our Animal Health operating segment is a market leader in nearly all of the major regions in which it operates. It discovers, develops, manufactures and commercializes animal health medicines and vaccines, with a focus on both livestock and companion animals. 

On February 6, 2013, an IPO of our subsidiary Zoetis was completed, pursuant to which we sold 99.015 million shares of Zoetis in exchange for the retirement of approximately $2.5 billion of Pfizer commercial paper issued on January 10, 2013. The IPO represented approximately 19.8% of the total outstanding Zoetis shares. On February 1, 2013, Zoetis shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “ZTS.” Prior to and in connection with the IPO, Zoetis completed a $3.65 billion senior notes offering and we transferred to Zoetis substantially all of the assets and liabilities of our Animal Health business. For additional details see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 19A. Subsequent Events: Zoetis Debt Offering and Initial Public Offering in our 2012 Financial Report. 

We will continue to consolidate Zoetis as we have retained control over the entity, and we will reflect amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests for the divested portion. The net assets, operations and cash flows that comprise Zoetis are not the same as those of the Animal Health operating segment.

Revenues from Animal Health products were approximately $4.3 billion in 2012, an increase of 3% compared to 2011, reflecting higher operational revenues of 6%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3%. Operational revenues from Animal Health products were favorably impacted by the solid performance in both the livestock and companion animal portfolios.

Major categories and product lines in the Animal Health business include:







Consumer Healthcare

Based on 2012 revenues, our Consumer Healthcare operating segment is the fifth-largest branded multi-national, over-the-counter (OTC), healthcare products business in the world and sells two of the ten largest selling OTC healthcare brands (Centrum and Advil) in the world. Consumer Healthcare revenues totaled $3.2 billion for 2012, an increase of 6% compared to 2011, reflecting higher operational revenues of 8%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 2%. The operational revenue increase was primarily due to the addition of products from the acquisitions of the consumer healthcare business of Ferrosan Holding A/S (Ferrosan) in December 2011 and Alacer Corp. (Alacer) in February 2012, discussed below. The Consumer Healthcare operating segment holds strong positions in various geographic markets, with its highest revenue volume in the U.S., Canada, China, Germany, Italy, Brazil and Australia.

Major categories and product lines in our Consumer Healthcare business include:



5







On August 13, 2012, we announced that we entered into an agreement with AstraZeneca for the global OTC rights for Nexium, a leading prescription drug currently approved to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired the exclusive global rights to market Nexium for OTC indications, which are subject to regulatory approval. In February 2012, we completed our acquisition of Alacer, a company that manufactures, markets and distributes Emergen-C, a line of effervescent, powdered drink mix vitamin supplements that is the largest-selling branded vitamin C line in the U.S. In December 2011, we completed our acquisition of the consumer healthcare business of Ferrosan, a Danish company engaged in the sale of science-based consumer healthcare products, including dietary supplements and lifestyle products, primarily in the Nordic region and the emerging markets of Russia and Central and Eastern Europe. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Acquisitions in our 2012 Financial Report and the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Business Development Initiatives section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report.

For additional information regarding the revenues of our Animal Health and Consumer Healthcare operating segments, see the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Other Product Revenues section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report.

Nutrition

On November 30, 2012, we completed the sale of our Nutrition business to Nestlé for $11.85 billion in cash. Pfizer Nutrition was a business that sold infant nutritionals, including infant milk formula brands for newborns and toddlers, in certain markets outside the U.S. and Canada. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Divestitures in our 2012 Financial Report. 

Research and Development

Innovation by our research and development (R&D) operations is very important to our success. As a result, and also because we are predominantly a human health company, the vast majority of our research and development spending is associated with human health products, compounds and activities. Our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. We spent $7.9 billion in 2012, $9.1 billion in 2011 and $9.5 billion in 2010 on research and development.

Biopharmaceutical R&D

We conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. We also seek out promising compounds and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through collaborations, alliance and license agreements, acquisitions and other arrangements.

Drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. According to the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), out of 5,000-10,000 screened compounds, only 250 enter preclinical testing, five enter human clinical trials and one is approved by the FDA. The process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than 10 years. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research.

As of year-end 2012, we had 276 projects in research and development, ranging from discovery through registration, of which 78 programs are in Phase 1 through registration, with the remainder of the projects in pre-clinical development. At year-end 2012, our Phase 3 portfolio contained 17 programs. Development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple different programs. While these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products.


6



In addition to discovering and developing new products, our research operations seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness and by discovering new uses or indications for them.

Information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Product Developments—Biopharmaceutical section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference.

Our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. We also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. The extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Competitive Products below.

We continue to closely evaluate our global research and development function and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D by prioritizing areas that we believe have the greatest scientific and commercial promise, utilizing appropriate risk/return profiles, and focusing on areas that we believe have the highest potential to deliver value in the near term and over time. To that end, our research primarily focuses on five high-priority areas that have a mix of small and large molecules—immunology and inflammation; oncology; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; neuroscience and pain; and vaccines. In addition to reducing the number of disease areas of focus, we have realigned and reduced our research and development footprint, and outsourced certain functions that do not drive competitive advantage for Pfizer. For additional information, see the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategy section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report.

For additional information regarding our R&D operations, see the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Research and Development section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report.
International Operations

We have significant operations outside the United States. For the developed markets, these operations for human pharmaceutical products are managed through the same business units as our U.S. operations (i.e., Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology and Established Products). Our operations in emerging markets for human pharmaceutical products are managed through the Emerging Markets business unit within the Established Products and Emerging Markets segment. Our Animal Health and Consumer Healthcare operating segments manage their operations worldwide.

Revenues from operations outside the U.S. of $35.9 billion accounted for 61% of our total revenues in 2012. Revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 16 countries outside the U.S. in 2012 and 2011, and in each of 17 countries outside the U.S. in 2010. The U.S. is our largest national market, comprising 39% of total revenues in 2012, 41% of total revenues in 2011 and 44% of total revenues in 2010. Japan is our second-largest national market, with 10% of total revenues in 2012, 9% of total revenues in 2011 and 8% of total revenues in 2010.

For a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the table captioned Geographic Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information in our 2012 Financial Report, and the table captioned Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area in the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report. Those tables are incorporated by reference. 

Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Affecting International Operations below. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. See Government Regulation and Price Constraints below for a discussion of these matters.

Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. In 2012, both revenues and net income were unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange in general, as foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar decreased our revenues and net income in many countries. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7E. Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities in our 2012 Financial Report, as well as the 

7



Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results—Financial Risk Management section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report. Those sections of our 2012 Financial Report are incorporated by reference.

Marketing

In our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. Through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs), employers and government agencies. We also market directly to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs.

Our biopharmaceutical businesses include five human health, customer-focused business units: Primary Care, Specialty Care (including vaccines), Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets. We operate in customer-focused business units within our biopharmaceutical businesses to better meet the diverse needs of physicians, patients and our customers while seeking to maximize value for our Company and our shareholders.

Our U.S. Primary Care operations are structured into regional units in order to create a more flexible organization to identify and address local market dynamics and customer needs. Our structure is designed to align the sales, marketing, and medical functions to work closely to meet the needs of key customer groups while seeking to ensure common coordination, focus and accountability across the organizations.

Our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and in the case of Prevnar 13, directly to individual provider offices in the U.S. We seek to gain access to healthcare authority, PBM and MCO formularies. Formularies are lists of approved medicines available to members that are tiered according to co-pay amounts and reimbursed by the respective PBM or MCO. We also work with MCOs, PBMs, employers and other healthcare providers to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines.

During 2012, Pfizer revenues from our three largest biopharmaceutical wholesalers were as follows:





Sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the biopharmaceutical businesses. In addition, our Consumer Healthcare operating segment generates a significant portion of its sales from several large customers, the loss of any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on the Consumer Healthcare operating segment.

Each of our global Animal Health and Consumer Healthcare operating segments utilizes its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and each occasionally uses distributors in smaller markets.

Our Animal Health operating segment’s advertising and promotions are generally targeted to veterinary healthcare professionals, livestock producers and pet owners. Animal Health products are sold directly to veterinarians and livestock producers, as well as through distributors and retail outlets.

Our Consumer Healthcare operating segment’s advertising and promotions are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. Consumer Healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores.
Patents and Intellectual Property Rights

Our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms.


8



We own or license a number of U.S. and foreign patents. These patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing.

Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. For additional information, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints—Intellectual Property below.

In the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the U.S. and most other countries. Based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the U.S. basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the drugs set forth in the table below. The basic patents for these products in other large markets may expire in the same, earlier or later years.
 

(1) With respect to the products in this table, the corresponding European and Japanese patent expiration dates are generally within one year before or after the U.S. dates indicated, except as follows:



(2) As a result of certain patent litigation settlements, we expect generic competition for Detrol LA to commence in the U.S. no earlier than January 1, 2014, except in limited circumstances, and no later than March 1, 2014.

(3) In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. For example, in addition to the basic product patent covering Viagra, it is also covered by a U.S. method-of-treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated with Revatio which has the same active ingredient as Viagra, expires in 2020. However, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic competition after the expiration of the basic patent.

We co-promote Aricept with Eisai Co., Ltd. (Eisai). We lost exclusivity for Aricept 5mg and 10mg tablets in the U.S. in November 2010, and in the majority of European markets in February 2012 and April 2012. We expect to lose exclusivity for the Aricept 23mg tablet in the U.S. in July 2013. For additional information, including a description of certain of our other co-

9



promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptions and the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—The Loss or Expiration of Intellectual Property Rights sections of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report and Item 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Products below.

We lost exclusivity for Lipitor in the U.S. in November 2011. Lipitor lost exclusivity in Japan in June 2011, Australia in April 2012 and most of developed Europe in March 2012 and May 2012. In the U.S., Europe, Japan and Australia, Lipitor now faces multi-source generic competition. In other international markets, Lipitor has lost exclusivity in certain countries and will lose exclusivity at various times in other countries. 

We lost exclusivity for Xalatan in the U.S. in March 2011. We lost exclusivity for Xalatan and Xalacom in the majority of European markets in January 2012. We lost exclusivity for Geodon in the U.S. in March 2012. We lost exclusivity in the U.S. in September 2012 for Revatio tablet, and in June 2012 for Detrol immediate release (Detrol IR). We lost exclusivity for Detrol in most European markets in September 2012. Aromasin, Effexor/Effexor XR (extended-release formulation of Effexor), Zosyn, Protonix, Norvasc and Vfend tablets are examples of other Pfizer products that face generic competition in the U.S. We also lost exclusivity for Caduet in the U.S. in November 2011, and in the majority of European markets in March and May 2012.

For additional information, see the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—The Loss or Expiration of Intellectual Property Rights section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report.

Companies have filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products, Viagra, Lyrica, Sutent, Rapamune, EpiPen, Torisel, Pristiq, and Embeda extended-release capsules. 

The expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. In some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to OTC products.

Biotechnology Products

Our biotechnology products, including BeneFIX, ReFacto, Xyntha, Enbrel and the Prevnar/Prevenar family, may face competition from biosimilars (also referred to as “follow-on biologics”). Such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products approved under the U.S. Public Health Service Act. Additionally, the FDA has approved a biosimilar recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, Genotropin, which was approved under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.

Abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the ACA, a framework for such approval exists in the U.S. The regulatory implementation of these ACA provisions is ongoing and expected to take several years. However, the FDA has begun to clarify its expectations for approval via the biosimilar pathway with the issuance of three draft guidance documents in February 2012. See Government Regulation and Price Constraints—Biosimilars for additional information on the ACA’s approval framework for biosimilars. 

In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years, and in Japan the regulatory authority has granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars, including somatropin (the recombinant human growth hormone in our Genotropin product), pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009. 

If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. However, unlike small molecule generics, biologics currently have additional barriers to entry related to the manufacture of such products, and biosimilars are not necessarily identical to the reference products. Therefore, generic competition with respect to biologics may not be as significant. As part of our business strategy, we are developing biosimilar medicines using our expertise in biologics and our regulatory, commercial and manufacturing strengths. As such, a better-defined biosimilars approval pathway will assist us in pursuing approval of our own biosimilar products in the U.S. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Biotechnology Products below.

10




We may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. Likewise, as we enter the biosimilars area and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us.

International

One of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the U.S. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. Under international and U.S. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. The World Trade Organization Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property (WTO-TRIPs) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2016 for least-developed countries. A number of countries have made improvements. We have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those countries. We include further patent protection improvement among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. For additional information, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints—Intellectual Property below.

Competition

Our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. Many of our human prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. The principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. Though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses.

Our competitors include other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer healthcare manufacturers. We compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products.

This competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. Our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in research and development, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. Our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. We seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. We also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons’ efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers.

Operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. We continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. We have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising; interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals; and medical education grants. We also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions.

While our Animal Health operating segment is a market leader in nearly all of the major regions and sectors in which it operates, it faces competition from other animal health businesses, including those that are business units of other large pharmaceutical companies. The principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category or individual product, and may include new product development, quality, price, service and effective promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers.

Our Consumer Healthcare operating segment faces competition from OTC business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. Our competitive position is affected by several factors, including, among others, the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors’ promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors’ introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (such as product labeling, patient access and prescription to OTC switches).


11



Managed Care Organizations

The growth of MCOs in the U.S. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. Approximately 260 million people in the U.S. now participate in some form of managed care. Because of the size of the patient population covered by MCOs, the marketing of prescription drugs to them and the PBMs that serve many of those organizations continues to grow in importance.

MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health maintenance organizations, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations (e.g., staff or group model health maintenance organizations). The purchasing power of MCOs has increased in recent years due to the growing numbers of patients enrolled in MCOs. At the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. This consolidation enhances both their purchasing strength and importance to us.

The growth of MCOs has increased pressure on drug prices. One objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. MCOs typically use formularies, volume purchases and long-term contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical providers. Also, MCOs use their purchasing power and their ability to influence market share and volume of prescription drugs to negotiate for lower supplier prices. They also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors’ offices and clinics. Hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. Since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases.

As discussed above under Marketing, MCOs and PBMs typically develop formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members that are tiered according to co-pay amounts and reimbursed by the respective PBM or MCO. Formularies typically are based on the prices and therapeutic benefits, or a combination of the two, of the available products. Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers. The breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. MCOs use a variety of means to encourage patients’ use of products listed on their formularies.

Exclusion of a product from a formulary or other MCO-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. Unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. However, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on MCO formularies.

The impact that MCOs have on drug prices and volumes has increased as a result of their role in negotiating on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries in connection with the Medicare Outpatient Prescription Drug Benefit, Medicare Part D, which took effect January 1, 2006. MCOs and PBMs negotiate directly with pharmaceutical manufacturers on behalf of the federal government for product access on Medicare Prescription Drug Plans’ (PDPs) formularies. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products that are used by the senior population included on the formularies of the Medicare PDPs.

Generic Products

One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. Several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. Unlike us, generic competitors often operate without large research and development expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. In addition, the FDA approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. Generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the body equivalent to that of the innovator product. This means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less.

In addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors’ branded products that lose their market exclusivity.

As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, 

12



including Medicaid in the U.S. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. In the U.S., Pfizer’s Greenstone subsidiary and Pfizer Injectables sell generic versions of Pfizer’s, as well as certain competitors’, solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, respectively, upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate.

Raw Materials

Raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. In general, these materials are available from multiple sources. No serious shortages or delays of raw materials were encountered in 2012, and none are expected in 2013. However, select materials have, from time to time, increased in price due to short-term imbalances between supply and demand. We have successfully secured the materials necessary to meet our requirements in these circumstances, but generally at higher prices than those historically paid.

Government Regulation and Price Constraints

In the United States

General. Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do business. Of particular importance in the U.S. is the FDA, which has jurisdiction over our biopharmaceutical products and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of these products. The FDA also regulates our Consumer Healthcare and Animal Health products. Other federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, also regulate some of our products.

In addition, many of our activities are subject to the jurisdiction of other federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of the Inspector General, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) (which also has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including OTC drugs and dietary supplements), the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the SEC. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws.

We are subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these various governmental bodies. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies in our 2012 Financial Report. Such actions may involve product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions.
Healthcare Reform. In March 2010, the ACA was enacted in the U.S. The provisions of the ACA are effective on various dates. The principal provisions affecting the biopharmaceutical industry include:






As of February 2013, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the ACA will result in the coverage of 27 million previously uninsured individuals by 2017. Approximately half of this would occur through an expansion of the Medicaid program. Effective in 2014, individuals with incomes below 133% of the federal poverty level (FPL) would be eligible for Medicaid. The remainder would be covered with private sector coverage, either through their employers or new state-based Health Insurance Exchanges (Health Insurance Exchanges). With limited exceptions, individuals who fail to purchase health 

13



insurance will pay a penalty, which is an obligation commonly referred to as the individual mandate. Individuals with incomes between 100%-400% of the FPL will be eligible for subsidies to help pay for coverage.

The U.S. Supreme Court reached a decision in June 2012 that upheld all provisions of the ACA with the exception of the Medicaid expansion. Now, states can choose not to expand their Medicaid populations without losing federal funding for their existing Medicaid populations. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the new state flexibility is likely to result in six million fewer new Medicaid enrollees than were initially expected to enroll as a result of the eligibility expansion and that half of these people are expected to gain coverage through Health Insurance Exchanges, and the remaining three million are likely to remain uninsured.

The ACA specifies certain benefits and services that must be covered for health insurers to qualify to participate in the Health Insurance Exchanges. The general categories of benefits and services that must be covered include: ambulatory patient services; emergency services; hospitalization; maternity and newborn care; mental health and substance use disorder services, including behavioral health treatment; prescription drugs; rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices; laboratory services; preventive and wellness services and chronic disease management; and pediatric services including oral and vision care. Regulators have provided additional guidance to states on the types of benefits and services that must be covered.
Expanding insurance coverage and other costs are expected to result in a relatively modest gain in overall pharmaceutical industry sales, as the newly insured are principally young and relatively healthy. At the same time, the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs associated with the ACA are a significant cost to the industry.

The ACA created the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), a 15-member panel appointed by the President, subject to Senate confirmation. The IPAB is charged with developing proposals to “reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending” in the event that the actual Medicare per capita growth rate exceeds a specified target. Unless Congress acts to alter the proposals, the proposals will be automatically implemented. However, the IPAB cannot directly ration care, raise premiums, increase cost sharing, or otherwise restrict benefits or modify eligibility. If the IPAB fails to act, the Secretary of HHS is directed to prepare such proposals. The IPAB is prohibited by statute from making payment reductions to certain sectors such as hospitals and home health agencies, which increases the risk that the IPAB will propose to limit access to pharmaceutical treatments or mandate price controls for our products.

The ACA also established the Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI), a federally funded, private, non-profit corporation empowered to fund and disseminate comparative effectiveness research (CER) and build infrastructure for improved outcomes analysis. PCORI has no authority to impose formulary changes directly in government-funded health programs. However, we expect that due to the PCORI, as well as the underlying market demand for data-driven differentiation, CER studies will have growing influence on access. Overseeing and managing the PCORI is an advisory board drawn from multiple and varied stakeholder organizations, including the pharmaceutical industry. Pfizer’s Chief Medical Officer currently serves as an industry representative on the advisory board.

Changes in Marketing Activity Disclosure. The ACA expands the government’s investigative and enforcement authority and increases the penalties for fraud and abuse, including amendments to both the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute to make it easier to bring suit under these statutes. The ACA also allocates additional resources and tools for the government to police healthcare fraud, with expanded subpoena power for HHS, additional funding to investigate fraud and abuse across the healthcare system, and expanded use of Recovery Audit Contractors for enforcement.

After significant delays, starting in 2013, pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to record any transfers of value made to doctors and teaching hospitals and to disclose such data to HHS, with the initial disclosure to HHS due no later than March 31, 2013. Data collection and reporting will begin with the issuance of final guidance or regulations anticipated before the end of the first quarter of 2013. In addition to civil penalties for failure to report transfers of value to physicians or teaching hospitals, there will be criminal penalties if a manufacturer intentionally makes false statements in such reports. The payment data across biopharmaceutical and medical device companies will be posted by HHS on a publicly available website. This increased access to such data by fraud and abuse investigators, industry critics and media will draw attention to our collaborations with reported entities and will importantly provide opportunities to underscore the critical nature of our collaborations for developing medicine and exchanging scientific information. This national payment transparency effort, industry commitment to uphold voluntary codes of conduct (such as the updated PhRMA Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals and PhRMA Guiding Principles Direct to Consumer Advertisements About Prescription Medicines) and rigorous internal training and compliance efforts will complement existing laws and regulations to help ensure ethical collaboration and truthful product communications.

14



Medicare. Medicare Part D went into effect on January 1, 2006. Elderly and disabled beneficiaries have access to the Medicare drug benefit through private plans approved by the federal government. Beneficiaries with low incomes and modest assets are eligible for assistance with Medicare Part D plan premiums and cost sharing. Nationally, the share of such beneficiaries with comprehensive drug coverage increased from 59% in 2005 to over 90% in 2011. Medicare beneficiaries report high levels of satisfaction, with an overwhelming majority saying the program works well. In addition, the program costs less than originally expected.
The ACA made some important changes to the drug benefit, which include, in particular, phasing out the coverage gap by 2020. Prior to the ACA, beneficiaries who reached a certain level of spending on prescription medications (the Medicare Part D coverage gap or “doughnut hole”) had to pay 100% of the cost of their drugs until personal out-of-pocket spending reached a level qualifying them for catastrophic coverage. The Medicare Part D Coverage Gap Discount Program uses public and private funding to relieve the financial burden facing beneficiaries who fall into this coverage gap. Beginning in 2011, branded pharmaceutical companies paid 50% of the cost of the branded drugs in the gap and the government paid 7% of the cost of the generic drugs in the gap. As a result, rather than paying 100% of the total cost of their drugs when they reached the coverage gap, enrollees paid 50% of the total cost of branded drugs and 93% of the total cost of generic drugs. The contribution from the government for generic drugs grew to 14% in 2012, and will grow steadily over time until reaching 75% in 2020. In addition, starting in 2013, the 50% discount from branded pharmaceutical companies will be supplemented by a contribution from the government, which will also grow steadily over time until reaching 25% in 2020. That means that by 2020, enrollees will pay only 25% of the cost of their branded and generic drugs in the gap.

Biosimilars. The ACA also created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. Under the ACA, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference, innovator biologic. The FDA is responsible for implementation of the legislation, which will require the FDA to address such key topics as the type and extent of data needed to establish biosimilarity; the data required to achieve interchangeability compared to biosimilarity; the naming convention for biosimilars; the tracking and tracing of adverse events; and the acceptability of data using a non-U.S. licensed comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability with a U.S.-licensed reference product. The FDA has begun to address some of these issues with the February 2012 release of three draft guidance documents. Specifically, the FDA has clarified that biosimilar applicants may use a non-U.S. licensed comparator in certain studies to support a demonstration of biosimilarity to a U.S.-licensed reference product.

Medicaid and Related Matters. Federal law requires branded pharmaceutical companies to provide rebates to state Medicaid agencies. The ACA brought about major changes in the Medicaid program. Collectively, the measures (i) increased federal rebates paid by manufacturers on branded drugs within the traditional Medicaid program from 15.1% to 23.1%, and for generic drugs from 11% to 13% of Average Manufacturer Price (AMP); (ii) expanded Medicaid drug rebates to cover drugs provided through managed Medicaid plans; and (iii) changed the rebate rates for line extensions or new formulations of solid oral dosage form drugs. Post-implementation of ACA, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) withdrew its former, detailed AMP-calculation rules, and new CMS AMP guidance was published in proposed rule form in January 2012. A final rule is expected in mid-2013. The law also creates a federal upper limit under the Medicaid program for generic drugs at 175% of AMP. In addition, the law expanded the types of entities eligible for the “Section 340B discounts” for outpatient drugs that began in 2010.
The majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain medicines to Medicaid beneficiaries. Restrictions exist for some Pfizer products in certain states. Access in the Medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for Medicaid recipients contracting for the provision of services in the state. Given states’ current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments.
The ACA expands Medicaid coverage in 2014. The Congressional Budget Office estimates between seven and 13 million additional people will be enrolled in Medicaid by 2014.
We also must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. See the discussion regarding rebates in the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Revenues—Overview section of the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1G. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Revenues in our 2012 Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference.
PDUFA Reauthorization. The Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) was first enacted in 1992 to provide the FDA with additional resources to speed the review of important new medicines. Prior to PDUFA, inadequate funding of the FDA drug review process led to a backlog of application reviews and lengthy review times. PDUFA revolutionized the review 

15



process for new drugs and biologics without compromising high approval standards for demonstration of product safety, quality and efficacy. PDUFA expires every five years and must be reauthorized by Congress. PDUFA IV expired on September 30, 2012, and was renewed as Title I of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA). In addition to PDUFA V, FDASIA included a range of provisions important to the industry, including new user fee requirements for biosimilar products and generics. The PDUFA V reauthorization reflected months of discussion between the FDA, industry and other stakeholders such as patient groups and consumers. The current PDUFA V agreement focuses on improving the efficiency and predictability of the review process, strengthening the agency regulatory science base and enhancing benefit-risk assessment and post-approval safety surveillance.

Budget Control Act of 2011. In August 2011, the federal Budget Control Act of 2011 (the Budget Control Act) was enacted in the U.S. The Budget Control Act includes provisions to raise the U.S. Treasury Department’s borrowing limit, known as the debt ceiling, and provisions to reduce the federal deficit by $2.4 trillion between 2012 and 2021. Deficit-reduction targets include $900 billion of discretionary spending reductions associated with HHS and various agencies charged with national security, but those discretionary spending reductions do not include programs such as Medicare and Medicaid or direct changes to pharmaceutical pricing, rebates or discounts. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is responsible for identifying the remaining $1.5 trillion of deficit reductions, which will be divided evenly between defense and non-defense spending. Under this OMB review process, Social Security, Medicaid, Veteran Benefits and certain other spending categories are excluded from consideration, but reductions in payments to Medicare providers may be made, although any such reductions are prohibited by law from exceeding 2% of the originally budgeted amount. Additionally, certain payments to Medicare Part D plans, such as low-income subsidy payments, are exempt from reduction. While we do not know the specific nature of the spending reductions under the Budget Control Act that will affect Medicare, we do not expect that those reductions will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. However, any significant spending reductions affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit-reduction effort or legislative replacement for the Budget Control Act, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

Federal Debt Ceiling.  Enforcement of the U.S. federal debt ceiling has been suspended through May 18, 2013. If the U.S. federal government fails to suspend enforcement of the debt ceiling beyond May 18, 2013 or to increase the debt ceiling and, as a result, is unable to satisfy its financial obligations, including under Medicare, Medicaid and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.
Outside the United States
We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe, Canada, Japan, China, South Korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. This international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries.
Europe. The approval of new drugs across the EU may be achieved using the Mutual Recognition Procedure/Decentralized Procedure or EU Commission/European Medicines Agency (EMA) Centralized Procedure. These procedures apply in the EU member states, plus the European Economic Area countries, Norway and Iceland. The use of these procedures generally provides a more rapid and consistent approval process across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country.
Since the EU does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its member states, we continue to work with individual countries on such matters across the region.
The world economy in 2012 faced ongoing challenges and, in particular, continuing uncertainty around the solvency of governments. As a result, global growth has remained low, with many EU countries experiencing a second recession in recent years. One of the consequences of the economic challenges for almost all world economies has been an increase in public debt as a proportion of gross domestic product, arising from increased government spending and reduced tax receipts. For many developed economies, particularly in Europe, this has exacerbated existing fiscal imbalances and has created doubt in investment markets about the sustainability of public debt levels in a number of European countries, further raising the cost of borrowing, with the result that financial support has been necessary from the EU to Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain and from the International Monetary Fund in the cases of Greece, Portugal and Ireland. Stringent austerity measures have been implemented in many European countries with the aim of closing the fiscal gap, in particular in Spain and Italy.
Under these macroeconomic conditions, Pfizer continues to face widespread downward pressures on international pricing and reimbursement, particularly in developed European markets, Japan and in certain emerging markets. all of which have a 

16



large government share of pharmaceutical spending and are facing a difficult fiscal environment. Specific pricing pressures in 2012 included measures to reduce pharmaceutical prices and expenditures in Spain, Italy, France, Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Japan.
Formal processes of international reference pricing (IRP) between EU countries add to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries. Price variations also have arisen from exchange rate fluctuations between the euro and other European currencies, and these also are exacerbated by international reference pricing systems. The downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to IRP policies, emergency measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some European countries and ongoing exchange rate turbulence.
In January 2007, a new EU Regulation on Medicines for Pediatric Use became effective. This introduced obligations on pharmaceutical companies to conduct research on their medicines for children and, subject to various conditions, offered the possibility of incentives for so doing, including exclusivity extensions. The aim of this regulation is to improve the health of children in the EU through high-quality research, stimulating the development of new medicines, creating infrastructure to enable authorized use and improving the information on medicines for children. A Pediatric Committee was created within the EMA to provide scientific opinions and input on development plans for medicines for use with children. In line with this regulation, Pfizer is conducting a number of pediatric research programs for its in-line and development products.
In July 2012, new pharmacovigilance legislation came into force in the EU, which included many new and revised requirements that impact Pfizer’s global safety system. Key changes include the establishment of a new Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee within the EMA, with wide responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the EU authorities. Accordingly, it will be possible for regulators in the EU to require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization efficacy studies, both at the time of approval and at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. There are also additional requirements to include statements in product labeling with regard to adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. The new legislation also introduces significantly greater transparency of the safety review process.
The new legislation forms part of a three-part “pharmaceutical package” to amend the existing EU pharmaceutical legislation. The second part, the Falsified Medicines Directive, is a Directive aimed at preventing falsified medicines from entering into the legal supply chain. Notably, the Directive imposes new obligations on all parties in the distribution chain, including importers, traders, manufacturers, distributors, and any operator who repackages a product. Member states must transpose the Directive into national law and apply its provisions from January 2013 onwards. The Directive also provides the legal basis of a number of implementation measures to be adopted by the European Commission. Most of these implementation measures are expected to be adopted between 2013 and 2014 and will not be applicable until three years after the date of publication. The third part of the package concerned the provision of information on prescription medicines to patients, which proved controversial and has been discontinued.
Transparency is a key theme and priority for the European Commission and EMA in the pharmaceutical area, particularly with regard to clinical trial results and data submitted for marketing authorization in the EU. Recently, the EMA has disclosed significantly more of such data, upon request, than in previous years, and the EMA announced its intention to publish additional data in the future.
At the end of the third quarter of 2010, the Commissioner for Industry and Entrepreneurship of the European Commission announced the launch of a process on corporate responsibility in the pharmaceutical industry. The process, which is expected to officially conclude in mid-April 2013, included three independent platforms: (i) transparency and ethics in the sector; (ii) access to medicines in Africa; and (iii) access to medicines in Europe in the context of pricing and reimbursement. No specific outcomes have yet been determined following the work undertaken by the platforms, but these discussions are likely to drive requests for future change, for example, on transparency and ethics in the pharmaceutical area.
Canada. Health Canada (HC) is the government agency that provides regulatory and marketing approval for drugs and therapeutic products in Canada. In October 2012, the Federal Minister of Health announced the government’s intention to (i) re-introduce the Legislative and Regulatory Modernization (LRM) regulatory framework (which was originally presented to Parliament in October 2010) and (ii) introduce “Orphanet” to Canada. Orphanet is an international consortium of countries that seeks to improve the diagnosis, care and treatment of patients with rare disorders. The upcoming LRM regulatory framework is the most significant drug regulatory system reform in Canada in over 50 years and is expected to overhaul Canada’s Food and Drugs Act and Regulations. The LRM supports a “lifecycle” regulatory approach and is focused on strengthening evidence-based decision-making, good regulatory planning, licensing, post-licensing, accountability, authority and enforcement. Through this framework, HC intends to improve the market authorization process and implement necessary regulatory frameworks. 
Introductory “non-excessive” prices and price increases are controlled by the federal Patented Medicines Prices Review Board. However, reimbursement is under provincial jurisdiction. As provinces continue to face budget pressure from growing 

17



healthcare expenditures, many provincial governments have developed pricing and purchasing strategies (including product listing agreements and a pan-Canadian purchasing alliance initiative) to obtain better drug prices. The private sector is also attempting to exert its negotiating power on drug manufacturers. 

The 2004 Federal Provincial Territorial (FPT) Health Accord that sets out the Canada Health Transfers payment (a budgetary mechanism, that provides for funding to provincial governments by the federal government), plus commitments on health policy initiatives expires on March 31, 2014. In advance of the 2014 expiration of the FPT Health Accord, the federal government announced, in December 2011, a new funding framework that confirms its health transfer funding policy until 2024, and, assuming Canada achieves its projected gross domestic product growth target of 3%, provides for funding growth of 6% annually through 2016-2017. 
Asia. The regulatory environment in Asia presents multiple issues for companies trying to achieve simultaneous global development and registration (i.e., marketing products at the same time as in the U.S., Europe, Canada and elsewhere). While each country in Asia has its unique regulatory concerns, there are a number of regulatory issues that are common among the majority of countries in Asia. For example, with the exception of Japan, health authorities in Asia generally require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (e.g., the U.S. FDA) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. Proof of reference country approval is usually satisfied by submitting a Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product, a legal document that is issued by the competent health authority certifying that the company’s product has satisfied its country’s registration requirements and manufacturing standards. Often, this requirement delays marketing authorization in Asia by 12-15 months following marketing authorization in the U.S. and Europe.
Another common regulatory issue in Asia is the requirement for local clinical data in the country’s population in order to receive final marketing approval. Each of Japan, China, South Korea, Taiwan, India and Vietnam has regulations that in some form require clinical studies in the country (e.g., China requires a prescribed number of Chinese patients regardless of the product, therapeutic area or disease population). Although some agencies have shown flexibility based on scientific rationale related to ethnicity assessments, it is not uncommon for companies to be required to duplicate costly clinical trials in Asia pursuant to these regulations. This can further add to marketing approval delays compared to the U.S. and Europe. Additionally, similar requirements for local clinical data exist outside of Asia in countries such as Mexico and Russia, where we try to ensure their inclusion in global clinical studies, where feasible, or conduct additional studies there, which further delays marketing authorization in those countries.
In Japan, the government is aiming to reduce the drug lag (i.e., drugs are often launched in Japan years after the EU and U.S. markets) in a two-pronged approach: reducing regulatory agency review times and establishing a new pilot pricing premium. The pilot pricing premium provides a financial incentive for drug development in Japan. While economic conditions and government debt levels continue to put pressure on healthcare costs resulting in cost containment (particularly in the off-patent sector), the recent extension of the pilot pricing premium for innovative products is encouraging.
In South Korea, the national health insurance deficit prompted the government to make significant price cuts in the off-patent sector, effective April 2012. We continue to work with a committee established by the government to improve the pricing system for innovative new drugs.
The controlling regulatory agency in China is the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA). SFDA’s scope of responsibilities is similar to that of the FDA and EMA. Two key agencies within SFDA are the Center for Drug Evaluation (CDE) and the National Institutes for Food and Drug Control (NIFDC). The CDE, which is analogous to the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, is primarily responsible for the technical review of product applications, including clinical trial applications and new drug applications, and drafting technical guidance documents. NIFDC is the quality testing arm of SFDA, responsible for the testing of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices nationwide.
China’s regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are not always consistent with international standards. As a result, it is not uncommon to see treatments entering the market in China two to five years after first marketing in the U.S. and Europe. There are three main contributing elements for this delay: (i) clinical trial authorization approval times that are five to 10 times longer than international standards and add greater than 12 months to development time; (ii) significant local Chinese patient number requirements for biologic products, regardless of product characteristics or disease prevalence; and (iii) although the SFDA has improved its framework for more transparency, a formal agency consultation structure, which would enable manufacturers to better align with the agency on the complexities of its drug development requirements and policies, has not been established. 
Intellectual Property. While the global intellectual property environment has improved following WTO-TRIPS, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection (see Patents and Intellectual Property Rights above). In emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for 

18



reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their national pharmaceutical industries. There is considerable political pressure to weaken existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods) and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. Our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers.
In December 2012, the EU approved an EU Patent Package, which was agreed to by 25 out of 27 EU member states (excluding Italy and Spain, which opted out but which are free to opt back in). This will create a Unitary EU patent, i.e., a uniform patent with equal effect that will be granted, transferred, and enforced in a unitary way through participating member states. Patent grants will continue to be granted through the existing European Patent Office, but a new court system will be set up to enforce such patents and hear revocation actions. The central Division of the new court will be in Paris, although a section based in London will hear chemical and pharmaceutical cases. The new regime reduces the translation requirement, should allow patentees to obtain pan-European injunctions and damages, and should reduce forum-shopping in Europe for patent holders seeking to enforce their patents, as well as generic manufacturers alleging patent invalidity or non-infringement. The EU Patent Package will enter into force on January 1, 2014 or, after 13 European countries have ratified it, whichever is later.
Canada’s intellectual property regime for drugs provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity, but is generally perceived to be less predictable than the intellectual property regimes of comparable countries. Through intense negotiations as part of the Canada/EU Comprehensive Economic & Trade Agreement (CETA), the Canadian intellectual property regime may be further enhanced by EU demands to align their respective intellectual property regimes. Canada recently joined the Trans-Pacific Trade Partnership (TPP), and it is expected that more pressure to improve its intellectual property regime will arise if nothing results from the CETA agreement. 
In China, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. The government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with World Trade Organization (WTO) provisions, and several companies, including Pfizer, have established research and development centers in China due to increased confidence in China’s intellectual property environment. Despite this, China remained on the U.S. Department of Commerce Priority Watch List for 2012. Further, the standards for patentability in China remain more restrictive than in other major markets, including the U.S., Europe and Japan. Also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent, such as the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage.
Additionally, true regulatory data protection remains elusive in China. The Center for Drug Evaluation provides protection against reliance on data by generic applicants for a fixed period of time. Following its WTO accession in 2001, China revised its laws to incorporate concepts from the WTO-TRIPS, and China’s relevant laws establish a six-year period of protection against unfair commercial use of undisclosed test and other data of products containing a new chemical ingredient. However, the current regulations are ambiguous as to how data protection is implemented in practice in China. For example, certain key concepts such as “new chemical ingredient” and “unfair commercial use” are undefined.
In Brazil and other Latin American countries, backlogs at patent agencies have presented challenges for the protection of certain products. The lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products.
In India, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the increasing tendency of the Indian Patent Office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings, and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to protect many of our inventions. India and other countries such as Israel maintain a system of pre-grant patent oppositions that delay the granting of patents and add an additional challenge in our ability to protect our products through patents.

In South Korea, the laws and regulations for the patent-regulatory approval linkage system were finalized and implemented as part of the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement in 2012. The Korean patent-regulatory approval linkage system includes biologics.

19





Environmental Law Compliance

Most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. We have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. We also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies in our 2012 Financial Report. As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2012 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows:




While capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we have no reason to believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position.

While there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations and our existing distribution networks, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term.

Tax Matters

The discussion of tax-related matters in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5. Tax Matters in our 2012 Financial Report, is incorporated by reference.

Employees

In our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 91,500 people in our operations throughout the world, including approximately 9,300 people in our Animal Health operations. 

Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012

Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRSHRA) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the Government of Iran or other entities and individuals targeted by certain U.S. sanctions administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). In some instances, ITRSHRA requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under U.S. law or were conducted by a non-U.S. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates. 

As a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. During 2012, our activities included supplying life-saving medicines, nutritional supplements and other medical products (Pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in Iran and Syria. U.S. law allows us to seek and rely on licenses issued by OFAC to supply Pfizer products to customers in these countries, for both human and animal use. We ship these Pfizer products pursuant to such licenses, and we conduct our activities in accordance with our internal policies, which follow requirements set forth in the laws of the U.S. and other applicable jurisdictions. We will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of humans and animals in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our internal policies.

To our knowledge, none of our activities during 2012 are required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRSHRA, with the following possible exceptions: 



20



and, as a result, subsequently received certain payments. Not all funds related to these transactions have been received from Bank Tejarat. Where required, we have requested U.S. government authorization to process the funds received and to be received. For funds received in 2012, our estimated gross revenues associated with these transactions were euro 222,962. Other than as set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information, including the tables therein captioned Selected income statement information, Geographic Information and Significant Product Revenues in our 2012 Financial Report and in the table captioned Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area in the MD&A in our 2012 Financial Report, we do not allocate net profit on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. Pfizer’s net profits attributable to these transactions in 2012 were a fraction of the gross revenues.



We have informed our customers that, in connection with future transactions with Pfizer, Bank Tejarat, SIIB and any other banks designated as SDNs under Executive Order 13382 are not to be used. 
