
General 
United Technologies Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. UTC provides high technology products and services to the building systems and aerospace industries worldwide. Growth is attributable primarily to the internal development of our existing businesses and to acquisitions. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2012 Annual Report, including the information contained therein under the heading “Business Overview.” 
In 2012, we implemented a new organizational structure that allows us to better serve customers, drive growth and achieve further efficiencies through greater integration across certain product lines. As part of this new structure, effective January 1, 2012, we formed the UTC Climate, Controls & Security segment, which is composed of the former Carrier and UTC Fire & Security segments. 
On July 26, 2012, we acquired Goodrich Corporation (Goodrich) pursuant to a merger agreement dated September 21, 2011. As a result of the acquisition, Goodrich became a wholly-owned subsidiary of UTC and we combined the acquired Goodrich business and the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand business to form a new segment named UTC Aerospace Systems. 
As part of our new organizational structure implemented in 2012, we also created UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, a new organization consisting of the Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems segments. We continue to report the financial and operational results of Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems separately. 
Our operating units include businesses with operations throughout the world. Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security (collectively referred to as the “commercial businesses”) serve customers in the commercial, government infrastructure and residential property sectors worldwide. UTC Climate, Controls & Security also serves industrial, transport refrigeration and food service equipment customers. Pratt & Whitney, UTC Aerospace Systems, and Sikorsky (collectively referred to as the “aerospace businesses”) primarily serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services markets of the aerospace industry. Pratt & Whitney also serves customers in certain industrial markets. For 2012, our commercial and industrial sales (generated principally by our commercial businesses) were approximately 51 percent of our consolidated sales, and commercial aerospace and military aerospace sales (generated exclusively by our aerospace businesses) were approximately 28 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of our consolidated sales. Consolidated international sales for 2012, including U.S. export sales, were 60 percent of our consolidated sales. 
This Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website (http://www.utc.com) under the heading “SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 
 
3 

Table of Contents
Description of Business by Segment 
Our operations for the periods presented herein are classified into five principal segments: Otis, UTC Climate, Controls & Security, Pratt & Whitney, UTC Aerospace Systems, and Sikorsky. Each segment groups similar operating companies and the management organization of each segment has general operating autonomy over a range of products and services. The principal products and services of each segment are as follows: 
Otis—elevators, escalators, moving walkways and service. 
UTC Climate, Controls & Security—heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration systems, controls, services and energy-efficient products for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications, fire and special hazard detection and suppression systems, firefighting equipment, security, monitoring and rapid response systems and service, and security personnel services. 
Pratt & Whitney—commercial, military, business jet and general aviation aircraft engines, auxiliary power units, and parts and services. 
UTC Aerospace Systems—aerospace products and aftermarket services, including electric power generation, management and distribution systems, flight control systems, engine control systems, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, engine components, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, propeller systems, aircraft nacelles, and interior, actuation, landing and electronic systems. 
Sikorsky—military and commercial helicopters, helicopter and aircraft aftermarket parts and services. 
Segment financial data for the years 2010 through 2012, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales, appears in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report. Segment sales as discussed below include intercompany sales, which are ultimately eliminated within the “Eliminations and other” category as reflected in the segment financial data in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report. Similarly, total segment backlog as discussed below includes fully-funded government and intercompany backlog. 
Otis 
Otis is the world’s largest elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs a wide range of passenger and freight elevators for low-, medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of escalators and moving walkways. In addition to new equipment, Otis provides modernization products to upgrade elevators and escalators as well as maintenance and repair services for both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and through sales representatives and distributors. 
Sales generated by Otis’ international operations were 82 percent and 83 percent of total Otis segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. At December 31, 2012, Otis’ backlog was $14.8 billion as compared to $14.3 billion at December 31, 2011. Of the total Otis backlog at December 31, 2012, approximately $8.2 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2013. 
UTC Climate, Controls & Security 
As described above, in 2012, we implemented a new organizational structure that allows us to better serve customers, drive growth and achieve further efficiencies through greater integration across certain product lines. As part of this new structure, effective January 1, 2012, we formed the UTC Climate, Controls & Security segment, which is composed of the former Carrier and UTC Fire & Security segments. 
UTC Climate, Controls & Security is the leading provider of HVAC and refrigeration solutions, including controls for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications. These products and services are sold under the Carrier name and other brand names to building contractors and owners, homeowners, transportation companies, retail stores and food service companies. UTC Climate, Controls & Security is also a global provider of security and fire safety products and services. UTC Climate, Controls & Security provides electronic security products such as intruder alarms, access control systems and video surveillance systems and designs and manufactures a wide range of fire safety products including specialty hazard detection and fixed suppression products, portable fire extinguishers, fire detection and life safety systems, and other firefighting equipment. Services provided to the electronic security and fire safety industries include systems integration, video surveillance, installation, maintenance, and inspection services. In certain markets, UTC Climate, Controls & Security also provides monitoring, response and security personnel services, including cash-in-transit security, to complement its electronic security and fire safety businesses. Through its venture with Watsco, Inc., UTC Climate, Controls & Security distributes Carrier, Bryant, Payne and Totaline residential and light commercial HVAC products in the U.S. and selected territories in the Caribbean and Latin America. UTC Climate, Controls & 
 
4 

Table of Contents
Security sells directly to end customers and through manufacturers’ representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Certain of UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s HVAC businesses are seasonal and can be impacted by weather. UTC Climate, Controls & Security customarily offers its customers incentives to purchase products to ensure an adequate supply of its products in the distribution channels. The principal incentive program provides reimbursements to distributors for offering promotional pricing on UTC Climate, Controls & Security products. UTC Climate, Controls & Security products and services are used by governments, financial institutions, architects, building owners and developers, security and fire consultants, homeowners and other end-users requiring a high level of security and fire protection for their businesses and residences. UTC Climate, Controls & Security provides its security and fire safety products and services under Chubb, Kidde and other brand names and sells directly to customers as well as through manufacturer representatives, distributors, dealers and U.S. retail distribution. 
In 2010, we completed the acquisition of the GE Security business from General Electric Company, strengthening UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s portfolio of security and fire safety technologies for commercial and residential applications, including fire detection and life safety systems, intrusion alarms, video surveillance and access control systems. In 2012, UTC Climate, Controls & Security continued to execute the portfolio transformation strategy it began in 2008 by completing divestitures of several non-core businesses and taking non-controlling equity interests in various ventures. This included the sale of a controlling interest in a Carrier manufacturing and distribution joint venture in Asia and the sale of a controlling interest in the Carrier Canadian distribution business. These 2012 actions marked the completion of the Carrier portfolio transformation. In 2012, UTC Climate, Controls & Security also completed a number of transactions related to its ongoing fire and security portfolio transformation, including the divestiture of a controlling stake in its U.S.-based fire and security branch operations. 
Sales generated by UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 62 percent and 65 percent of total UTC Climate, Controls & Security segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. At December 31, 2012, UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s backlog was $3.0 billion as compared to $3.4 billion at December 31, 2011. Substantially all of the backlog at December 31, 2012 is expected to be realized as sales in 2013. 
Pratt & Whitney 
Pratt & Whitney is among the world’s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and general aviation markets. Pratt & Whitney Commercial Engines provides maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services for large commercial engines. Pratt & Whitney produces families of engines for wide- and narrow-body and large regional aircraft in the commercial market and for fighter and transport aircraft in the military market. Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC) is a world leader in the production of engines powering general and business aviation, as well as regional airline, utility and military, airplanes and helicopters, and provides related maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services. 
In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt & Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in which sales, costs and risks are shared. At December 31, 2012, the interests of third party participants in Pratt & Whitney-directed commercial jet engine programs ranged from 14 percent to 48 percent. In addition, Pratt & Whitney has interests in other engine programs, including a 50 percent ownership interest in the Engine Alliance (EA), a joint venture with GE Aviation, which markets and manufactures the GP7000 engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft. Pratt & Whitney has entered into risk and revenue sharing arrangements with third parties for 40 percent of the products and services that Pratt & Whitney is responsible for providing to the EA. Pratt & Whitney accounts for its interests in the EA joint venture under the equity method of accounting. Pratt & Whitney continues to pursue additional collaboration partners. 
As previously reported, on June 29, 2012, Pratt & Whitney, Rolls-Royce plc (Rolls-Royce), MTU Aero Engines AG (MTU), and Japanese Aero Engines Corporation (JAEC), participants in the IAE International Aero Engines AG (IAE) collaboration, which sells and supports V2500 engines for the Airbus A320 family of aircraft, completed a restructuring of their interests in IAE. Under the terms of the agreement, Rolls-Royce sold its ownership and collaboration interests in IAE to Pratt & Whitney, while also entering into an agreement to license its V2500 intellectual property to Pratt & Whitney. In exchange for the increased ownership and collaboration interests and intellectual property license, Pratt & Whitney paid Rolls-Royce $1.5 billion at closing with additional payments due to Rolls-Royce during the fifteen year period following closing of the purchase, conditional upon each hour flown by V2500-powered aircraft in service at the closing. Rolls-Royce will continue to support the program as a strategic supplier for the V2500 engine and continue to manufacture parts and assemble engines. As previously reported, Pratt & Whitney entered into a collaboration arrangement with MTU with respect to a portion of the collaboration interest in IAE acquired from Rolls-Royce for consideration of approximately $233 million with additional payments due to Pratt & Whitney in the future. As a result of these transactions, Pratt & Whitney holds a 61% net interest in the collaboration. Also as previously reported, on October 12, 2011, Pratt & Whitney and Rolls-Royce announced an agreement to form a new joint venture, subject to regulatory approval and other closing conditions, in which each will hold an equal share, to develop new engines to power the next generation of 120 to 230 passenger mid-size aircraft that will replace the existing fleet of mid-size aircraft currently in service or in development. On April 12, 2012, MTU and JAEC also agreed to participate in this new joint venture, in which the partners will focus on high-bypass ratio geared turbofan technology and will also collaborate on future studies of next generation propulsion systems. 
 
5 

Table of Contents
The development of new engines and improvements to current production engines present important growth opportunities. Pratt & Whitney is under contract with the U.S. Air Force to develop the F135 engine, a derivative of Pratt & Whitney’s F119 engine, to power the single-engine F-35 Lightning II aircraft being developed by Lockheed Martin. Pratt & Whitney achieved initial service release for the conventional take-off and landing/carrier variant and short take-off and vertical landing variant of the F135 engine in February 2010 and January 2011, respectively. These propulsion system configurations are now certified for production and cleared for flight on the Lockheed Martin F-35B stealth fighter jet, and are in use by the U.S. Air Force at Eglin Air Force Base and by the U.S. Marine Corps at Marine Corps Air Station Yuma. In addition, Pratt & Whitney is currently developing technology, including the PurePower PW1000G Geared TurboFan engine, intended to enable it to power both currently-proposed and future aircraft. The PurePower PW1000G engine targets a significant reduction in fuel burn and noise levels with lower environmental emissions and operating costs than current production engines. In December 2010, Airbus announced that it will offer a version of the PurePower PW1000G engine as a new engine option to power its A320neo family of aircraft scheduled to enter into service in 2015. In November 2012, Pratt & Whitney commenced testing on this new engine, the PW1100G-JM, being developed as part of a collaboration with MTU and JAEC. Additionally, PurePower PW1000G engine models have been selected by Bombardier to power the new CSeries passenger aircraft, by Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation to power the new Mitsubishi Regional Jet, and by Irkut Corporation of Russia to power the proposed new Irkut MC-21 passenger aircraft. These aircraft are scheduled to enter into service in 2013, 2015 and 2017, respectively. Further, on January 8, 2013, Embraer announced the selection of the PurePower engine to exclusively power the next generation of Embraer’s E-Jet family of aircraft scheduled to enter service in 2018. The success of these aircraft and the PurePower PW1000G family of engines is dependent upon many factors including technological challenges, aircraft demand, and regulatory approval. Based on these factors, as well as the level of success of aircraft program launches by aircraft manufacturers and other conditions, additional investment in the PurePower program may be required. P&WC has developed or is developing the PW210 engine family for helicopters manufactured by Sikorsky, AgustaWestland and The Eurocopter Group and is developing the PurePower PW800 engine for the new generation of long-range and heavy business jets. Pratt & Whitney continues to enhance its programs through performance improvement measures and product base expansion. 
Pratt & Whitney’s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt & Whitney’s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety and performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with the long duration of aircraft engine development, production and support programs, creates uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. The vast majority of sales are made directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through independent distributors and foreign sales representatives. Sales to Airbus (Pratt & Whitney’s largest non-governmental customer by sales) were 25 percent and 16 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively, before taking into account discounts or financial incentives offered to customers. Sales to the U.S. Government were 27 percent and 24 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
Sales generated by Pratt & Whitney’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 57 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2012 and 2011. At December 31, 2012, Pratt & Whitney’s backlog was $43.6 billion, including $4.3 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2011, these amounts were $21.3 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively. This backlog increase is primarily due to the consolidation of IAE and the incorporation of certain fleet maintenance aftermarket agreements in Pratt & Whitney’s backlog. Of the total Pratt & Whitney backlog at December 31, 2012, approximately $5.4 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2013. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog includes certain contracts for which actual costs may ultimately exceed total sales. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog excludes orders for new commercial engines that have not yet achieved full aviation authority certification. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts. 
As described above, in 2012 we implemented a new organizational structure that allows us to better serve customers, drive growth and achieve further efficiencies through greater integration across certain product lines. As part of this new structure, we created UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, a new organization consisting of Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems. We continue to report the financial and operational results of Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems separately. 
UTC Aerospace Systems 
As described above, on July 26, 2012, we acquired Goodrich pursuant to a merger agreement dated September 21, 2011. As a result of the acquisition, Goodrich became a wholly-owned subsidiary of UTC and we combined the acquired Goodrich business and the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand business to form a new segment named UTC Aerospace Systems. UTC Aerospace Systems is also part of UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, a new organization consisting of the Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems segments. We continue to report the financial and operational results of Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems separately. 
UTC Aerospace Systems is among the world’s leading suppliers of technologically advanced aerospace products and aftermarket services for diversified industries worldwide. UTC Aerospace Systems’ aerospace products include electric power generation, management and distribution systems, flight control systems, engine control systems, intelligence, surveillance and 
 
6 

Table of Contents
reconnaissance systems, engine components, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, propeller systems, aircraft nacelles, and interior, actuation, landing and electronic systems. UTC Aerospace Systems products serve commercial, military, regional, business and general aviation, as well as military ground vehicle, space and undersea applications. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical support and fleet maintenance programs. UTC Aerospace Systems sells aerospace products to airframe manufacturers, the U.S. and foreign governments, aircraft operators, maintenance, repair and overhaul providers, and independent distributors. Sales to Boeing (UTC Aerospace Systems’ largest non-governmental customer by sales) were 13 percent and 14 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales to the U.S. Government were 24 percent and 25 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
UTC Aerospace Systems is engaged in numerous commercial and military development programs including the Boeing 787 aircraft, the Bombardier CSeries aircraft, the Mitsubishi Regional Jet, the Airbus A350 and A320neo aircraft, the Irkut MC-21 aircraft, the COMAC C919 aircraft, the CH-53K next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps and the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II military aircraft and the Airbus A400M military aircraft. UTC Aerospace Systems is also the operations support prime contractor for NASA’s space suit/life support system and produces environmental monitoring and control, life support, mechanical systems, power generation, management, and distribution and thermal control systems for the International Space Station and the Orion crew exploration vehicle. 
Sales generated by UTC Aerospace Systems’ international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 49 percent and 44 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. At December 31, 2012, UTC Aerospace Systems’ backlog was $10.1 billion, including $2.5 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2011, these amounts were $4.9 billion and $846 million, respectively. This backlog increase is primarily due to additional backlog incorporated as a result of the Goodrich acquisition. Of the total UTC Aerospace Systems backlog at December 31, 2012, approximately $7.1 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2013. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts. 
Sikorsky 
Sikorsky is one of the world’s largest helicopter companies. Sikorsky manufactures military and commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services. 
Current major production programs at Sikorsky include the UH-60M Black Hawk medium-transport helicopters and HH-60M Medevac helicopters for the U.S. and foreign governments, the S-70 Black Hawk for foreign governments, the MH-60S and MH-60R helicopters for the U.S. Navy, the International Naval Hawk for multiple naval missions, and the S-76 and S-92 helicopters for commercial operations. The UH-60M helicopter is the latest and most modern in a series of Black Hawk variants that Sikorsky has been delivering to the U.S. Army since 1978. In July 2012, the U.S. Government and Sikorsky signed a five-year multi-service contract for approximately 650 H-60 helicopters. Actual production quantities will be determined year-by-year over the life of the program based on funding allocations set by Congress and the U.S. Department of Defense acquisition priorities, as well as the U.S. Foreign Military Sales program. Sikorsky is also developing the CH-53K next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps and the CH-148 derivative of the H-92 helicopter, a military variant of the S-92 helicopter, for the Canadian Government. The latter is being developed under a fixed-price contract that provides for the development and production of 28 helicopters, and a related support contract that provides for logistical support through March 2028. Sikorsky currently anticipates that its revenues under these contracts will be approximately $4.3 billion. Revenues are subject to changes in underlying variables such as future flight hours as well as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This is the largest and most expansive fixed-price development contract in Sikorsky’s history. Sikorsky and the Canadian Government have a number of disputes relating to the contract, including responsibility for delay of delivery of the fully configured and tested aircraft beyond the current contract delivery schedule and other disputes relating to development, production and logistical support. No aircraft were delivered in 2012. Sikorsky intends to continue discussions with the Canadian Government aimed at resolving these open disputes and establishing a revised delivery schedule. However, as a result of ongoing delays with delivery of aircraft and given the outstanding contractual disputes in connection with this program still to be resolved, Sikorsky has taken a $157 million charge in the quarter ended December 31, 2012, as further described in our 2012 Annual Report under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 
Sikorsky’s aftermarket business includes spare parts sales, mission equipment, overhaul and repair services, maintenance contracts and logistics support programs for helicopters and other aircraft. Sales are principally made to the U.S. and foreign governments, and commercial helicopter operators. Sikorsky is increasingly engaging in logistics support programs and partnering with its government and commercial customers to manage and provide logistics, maintenance and repair services. 
Sales to the U.S. Government were 66 percent and 68 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales generated by Sikorsky’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 32 percent and 34 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. At December 31, 2012, Sikorsky’s backlog was $14.4 billion, including $6.4 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2011, these amounts were $9.4 billion and $4.1 billion, 
 
7 

Table of Contents
respectively. This backlog increase is primarily due to increased firm commitments resulting from the five-year multi-service contract with the U.S. Government for UH-60M helicopters referenced above. Of the total Sikorsky backlog at December 31, 2012, approximately $5.5 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2013. 
Other 
On March 14, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a plan for the divestiture of a number of our non-core businesses. Cash generated from these divestitures has been and will be used to repay the debt issued to finance the Goodrich acquisition. These non-core businesses include the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand industrial businesses, which manufacture air compressors, metering pumps and heavy duty process pumps for industries involved with chemical and hydrocarbon processing, oil and gas production, water and wastewater treatment, and construction, Clipper Windpower plc (Clipper), a California-based wind turbine manufacturer, Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, a leader in the design, development and manufacture of sophisticated space propulsion systems for military and commercial applications, and Pratt & Whitney Power Systems, which sells aero-derivative engines for industrial applications. The sale of Clipper was completed in the third quarter of 2012 and the sale of the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand industrial businesses was completed in the fourth quarter of 2012. On July 23, 2012, we announced an agreement to sell Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne to GenCorp Inc. for $550 million, and on December 12, 2012 we announced an agreement to sell Pratt & Whitney Power Systems to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. The closings of the Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne and Pratt & Whitney Power Systems transactions are subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. 
On June 29, 2012, management of the Company approved a plan for the divestiture of UTC Power, a world leader in the application of fuel cell technology for stationary and transportation applications. On December 22, 2012, we announced an agreement to sell our UTC Power unit to ClearEdge Power, subject to customary closing conditions. 
The results of operations for the remaining divestitures of Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne and UTC Power, including the net gains/losses expected on disposition, and the related cash flows which result from these non-core businesses have been reclassified to “Discontinued Operations” in our Consolidated Statement of Operations and our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods presented. The sale of Pratt & Whitney Power Systems was not reclassified to “Discontinued Operations” due to our expected level of continuing involvement in the business post disposition. The remaining assets and liabilities of Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, UTC Power and Pratt & Whitney Power Systems have been reclassified to “Assets held for sale” and “Liabilities held for sale” in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2012. 
Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole 
Competition and Other Factors Affecting Our Businesses 
As worldwide businesses, our operations can be affected by a variety of economic, industry and other factors, including those described in this section, in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our 2012 Annual Report, in Item 1, “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results,” and in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. Each business unit is subject to significant competition from a large number of companies in the U.S. and other countries, and each competes on the basis of price, delivery schedule, product performance and service. 
Our aerospace businesses are subject to substantial competition from domestic manufacturers, foreign manufacturers (whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for certain of their commercial products) and companies that obtain regulatory agency approval to manufacture spare parts. In particular, Pratt & Whitney experiences intense competition for new commercial airframe/engine combinations. Engine suppliers may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, participation in financing arrangements and maintenance agreements. For information regarding customer financing commitments, participation in guarantees of customer financing arrangements and performance and operating cost guarantees of Pratt & Whitney, see Notes 5, 15 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report. Customer selections of engines and components can also have a significant impact on later sales of parts and services. In addition, the U.S. Government’s and other governments’ policies of purchasing parts from suppliers other than the original equipment manufacturer affect military spare parts sales. Significant elements of our aerospace businesses, such as spare parts sales for engines and aircraft in service, have short lead times. Therefore, backlog information may not be indicative of future demand. Pratt & Whitney’s major competitors in the sale of engines are GE Aviation, Rolls-Royce, Honeywell, Turbomeca, and CFM International. 
Research and Development 
Because changes in technology can have a significant impact on our operations and competitive position, we spend substantial amounts of our own funds on research and development. These expenditures, which are charged to expense as incurred, were $2.4 billion or 4.1 percent of total sales in 2012, as compared with $2.0 billion or 3.5 percent of total sales in 2011 and $1.7 billion or 3.2 percent of total sales in 2010. We also perform research and development work under contracts funded by the U.S. Government and other customers. This contract research and development, which is performed in our aerospace businesses, amounted 
 
8 

Table of Contents
to $1.7 billion in 2012, as compared to $1.5 billion in 2011 and $1.5 billion in 2010. These contract research and development costs include amounts that are expensed as incurred, through cost of products sold, and amounts that are capitalized into inventory to be subsequently recovered through production shipments. Of the total contract research and development costs, $1.7 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion were expensed in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The remaining costs have been capitalized. 
U.S. Government Contracts 
Contracting with the U.S. Government entails certain unique risks. U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally be entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. Most of our U.S. Government sales are made under fixed-price type contracts, while approximately $1.8 billion or 3.2 percent of our total sales for 2012 were made under cost-reimbursement type contracts. 
Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to audits. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports from the U.S. Government that recommend that we reduce certain contract prices because cost or pricing data we submitted in negotiation of the contract prices or cost accounting practices may not have conformed to government regulations. Some of these audit reports have recommended substantial reductions. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. For further discussion of risks related to government contracting, see the discussion in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in this Form 10-K and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report for further discussion. 
Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations 
Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further addressed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report. 
Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. Government contract we are awarded until the Environmental Protection Agency thereafter certifies that the condition giving rise to the violation had been corrected. 
In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including compliance costs and increased energy and raw materials costs. 
We conduct our businesses through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Changes in legislation or government policies can affect our worldwide operations. For example, governmental regulation of refrigerants and energy efficiency standards and fire safety regulations are important to our UTC Climate, Controls & Security businesses, and elevator safety codes are important to the businesses of Otis, while government safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions and government procurement practices can impact our aerospace businesses. 
U.S. laws, regulations, orders, and other measures concerning the export or re-export of products, software, services and technology to, and other trade-related activities involving, non-U.S. countries and parties affect the operations of UTC and its affiliates. These measures include U.S. economic sanctions targeting Iran. 
Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRA) added a new subsection (r) to section 13 of the Exchange Act, requiring a public reporting issuer to disclose in its annual or quarterly reports whether it or any of its affiliates have knowingly engaged in specified activities or transactions relating to Iran, including activities not prohibited by U.S. law and conducted outside the U.S. by non-U.S. affiliates in compliance with local law. Issuers must also file a notice with the SEC if any disclosable activities under ITRA have been included in the annual or quarterly report. Upon receiving such a notice, the SEC is required under ITRA to transmit the notice to the President, the House Committees on Foreign Affairs and Financial Services and the Senate Committees on Foreign Relations and Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and is required to make these separate notices publicly available on its website. 
 
9 

Table of Contents
The following activities are disclosed as required by Section 13(r)(1)(D)(iii) of the Exchange Act as transactions or dealings with the government of Iran that have not been specifically authorized by a U.S. federal department or agency: 
UTC Climate, Controls & Security. In 2009, UTC adopted a corporate policy prohibiting new business in or with Iran. In 2012, two of our non-U.S. affiliates engaged in activities related to the orderly winding down of legacy business involving the sale of fire safety equipment through procurement agents to entities owned by the government of Iran. This business was pursuant to contracts entered into by Simtronics AS (Simtronics), a Norwegian company and its subsidiary Water Mist Engineering AS (WME) prior to UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s acquisition of these two entities in April 2011. Both companies were acquired following the adoption by UTC in 2009 of the corporate policy prohibiting all new business in or with Iran, and both companies became subject to that policy upon acquisition. 
During 2012 and pursuant to five legacy contracts, Simtronics and WME received payments and provided certain fire detection and fire suppression equipment for end-use by the Pars Oil & Gas Company, which has been designated by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) as an entity owned or controlled by the government of Iran. These legacy contracts were not prohibited by applicable law when they were executed, nor was the wind down of these contractual arrangements prohibited by UTC’s policy at the time of acquisition. Simtronics and WME have halted all fulfillment activities related to these legacy contracts, but may seek clearance from OFAC in order to resolve a dispute over termination of a third-party agency agreement associated with these contracts and to complete certain remaining wind-down activities. Simtronics and WME do not otherwise intend to continue or enter into any Iran-related activity. The fire suppression products WME supplied incorporated a small amount of U.S.-origin springs, which are non-critical components, and an appropriate disclosure has been filed with OFAC. 
The gross revenue and net profits attributable to these activities in 2012 for Simtronics were $960,000 and $70,000, respectively, and for WME were $2,550,000 and $560,000, respectively. 
Otis. In 2012, non-U.S. affiliates of Otis conducted service, maintenance and/or modernization activities on elevators previously installed at Iranian diplomatic premises in France, Kuwait and Hungary under pre-existing contracts. The Hungarian contract was undertaken with a local construction company (not the Iranian Government). All of the contracts in question have been terminated by these Otis affiliates. 
The following activities are disclosed as required by Section 13(r)(1)(D)(i) and (ii) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended by ITRA, as transactions or dealings with certain designated parties: 
One of the payments received in 2012 by the French affiliate of Otis for work at the Iranian embassy in Paris was drawn on a local office of Bank Melli of Iran, which was previously designated as subject to sanctions under Executive Order 13382. In 2012, an Otis affiliate in Germany performed elevator maintenance and repair services to support the Frankfurt premises of Bank Saderat of Iran, which was designated as subject to sanctions in October 2007 under Executive Order 13224. 
All of these elevator service and modernization contracts were permissible under applicable law when they were executed. These Otis affiliates have ceased performance under these contracts and do not intend to continue or enter into any new Iran-related activity. An Otis employee who is a U.S. person (for OFAC purposes) stationed outside the U.S. provided unauthorized advice to the Otis affiliate in Kuwait with respect to ending its contract for services at Iranian diplomatic premises in Kuwait, and an appropriate disclosure has been filed with OFAC. 
The gross revenues and net profits attributable to the activities of these Otis affiliates in 2012 with respect to the Iranian diplomatic premises in France, Kuwait and Hungary were approximately $70,000 (including the single payment of approximately $1,500 drawn on Bank Melli) and $4,000, respectively, and were $4,500 and $1,500, respectively, with respect to Bank Saderat. 
Intellectual Property and Raw Materials and Supplies 
We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses and franchises related to our businesses. While this portfolio is cumulatively important to our business, we do not believe that the loss of any one or group of related patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. 
        We believe we have adequate sources for our purchases of materials, components, services and supplies used in our manufacturing. We work continuously with our supply base to ensure an adequate source of supply and to reduce costs. We pursue cost reductions through a number of mechanisms, including consolidating our purchases, reducing the number of suppliers, strategic global sourcing and using bidding competitions among potential suppliers. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. Like other users in the U.S., we are largely dependent upon foreign sources for certain raw materials requirements such as cobalt (Finland, Norway, Russia and Canada), tantalum (Australia and Canada), chromium (South Africa, Kazakhstan, Zimbabwe and Russia) and rhenium (Chile, Kazakhstan and Germany). We have a number of ongoing programs to manage this dependence and the accompanying risk, including long-term agreements and the conservation of materials through scrap reclamation and new manufacturing processes. We believe that our supply management practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Although at times high prices for some raw materials important to our businesses (for example, steel, copper, aluminum, titanium and nickel) have caused margin and cost pressures, we do not foresee near term unavailability of materials, components or supplies that 
 
10 

Table of Contents
would have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. For further discussion of the possible effects of the cost and availability of raw materials on our business, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. 
Employees and Employee Relations 
At December 31, 2012, our total number of employees was approximately 218,000, approximately 62 percent of which represents employees based outside the U.S. During 2012, we negotiated or concluded 18 domestic collective bargaining agreements, the largest of which covered certain workers at Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security. In 2013, numerous collective bargaining agreements are subject to renegotiation, the largest of which cover certain workers at UTC Aerospace Systems and Pratt & Whitney. Although some previous contract renegotiations have had a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations, particularly at Sikorsky, we do not anticipate that the renegotiation of these contracts in 2013 will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. For discussion of the effects of our restructuring actions on employment, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this Form 10-K and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report. 
For a discussion of other matters which may affect our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations, including the risks of our international operations, see the further discussion under the headings “General” and “Description of Business by Segment” in this section, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K, and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2012 Annual Report. 
Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results 
This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute “forward-looking statements” under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management’s current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “expectations,” “plans,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “will,” “should,” “see,” “guidance,” “confident” and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements relating to future sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, without limitation: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11 

Table of Contents

 

 

 

In addition, this Form 10-K includes important information as to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. See the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” under the heading “Contingent Liabilities,” the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Business Overview,” “Critical Accounting Estimates,” “Results of Operations,” and “Liquidity and Financial Condition,” and the section titled “Risk Factors.” This Form 10-K also includes important information as to these factors in the “Business” section under the headings “General,” “Description of Business by Segment” and “Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole,” and in the “Legal Proceedings” section. Additional important information as to these factors is included in our 2012 Annual Report in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Environmental Matters” and “Restructuring Costs.” The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Additional information as to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements is disclosed from time to time in our other filings with the SEC. 
