Item 1.                     BUSINESS
 
OVERVIEW
 
DISH Network Corporation was organized in 1995 as a corporation under the laws of the State of Nevada.  We started offering the DISH® branded pay-TV service in March 1996 and are the nation’s third largest pay-TV provider.  Our common stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “DISH.”  Our principal executive offices are located at 9601 South Meridian Boulevard, Englewood, Colorado 80112 and our telephone number is (303) 723-1000.
 
DISH Network Corporation is a holding company.  Its subsidiaries (which together with DISH Network Corporation are referred to as “DISH Network,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and/or “our”) operate three primary business segments.
 
•                  DISH.  The DISH branded direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) pay-TV service had 14.056 million subscribers in the United States as of December 31, 2012.  The DISH branded pay-TV service consists of Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) licenses authorizing us to use DBS and Fixed Satellite Service (“FSS”) spectrum, our owned and leased satellites, receiver systems, third-party broadcast operations, customer service facilities, a leased fiber network, in-home service and call center operations, and certain other assets utilized in our operations.  In addition, we market broadband services under the dishNET™ brand.
 
•                  Blockbuster.  On April 26, 2011, we completed the acquisition of most of the assets of Blockbuster, Inc. (the “Blockbuster Acquisition”).  The financial results of our Blockbuster operations are included in our financial results beginning April 26, 2011.  Blockbuster primarily offers movies and video games for sale and rental through multiple distribution channels such as retail stores, by-mail, digital devices, the blockbuster.com website and the BLOCKBUSTER On Demand® service.
 
•                  Wireless Spectrum.  In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless spectrum licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009 subject to certain build-out requirements.  On March 9, 2012, we completed the acquisitions of 100% of the equity of reorganized DBSD North America, Inc. (“DBSD North America”) and substantially all of the assets of TerreStar Networks, Inc. (“TerreStar”), pursuant to which we acquired, among other things, 40 MHz of 2 GHz wireless spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America and TerreStar.  The financial results of DBSD North America and TerreStar are included in our financial results beginning March 9, 2012.  The total consideration to acquire these assets was approximately $2.860 billion.  This amount includes $1.364 billion for DBSD North America (the “DBSD Transaction”), $1.382 billion for TerreStar (the “TerreStar Transaction”), and the net payment of $114 million to Sprint Nextel Corporation (“Sprint”) pursuant to a settlement agreement.  We are evaluating our options to commercialize these assets.
 
Business Strategy
 
Our business strategy is to be the best provider of video services in the United States by providing high-quality products, outstanding customer service, and great value.  We promote DISH branded programming packages as providing our subscribers with a better “price-to-value” relationship than those available from other subscription television providers.  We believe that there continues to be unsatisfied demand for high-quality, reasonably priced television programming services.
 
•                  High-Quality Products.   We offer a wide selection of local and national programming, featuring more national and local HD channels than most pay-TV providers.  We have been a technology leader in our industry, introducing award-winning DVRs, dual tuner receivers, 1080p video on demand, and external hard drives.  To maintain and enhance our competitiveness over the long term, we introduced a new whole-home HD DVR receiver, the Hopper™ set-top box, that allows, among other things, recorded programming
 
1

Table of Contents
 
to be viewed in HD in multiple rooms.  We recently introduced the Hopper set-top box with Sling, which promotes a suite of integrated products designed to maximize the convenience and ease of watching TV anytime and anywhere, which we refer to as DISH Anywhere™ that utilizes, among other things, online access and Slingbox “placeshifting” technology.  In addition, the Hopper with Sling has several innovative features which allows customers to watch and record television programming through certain tablet computers and combines program-discovery tools, social media engagement and remote-control capabilities through the use of certain tablet computers.
 
•                  Outstanding Customer Service.  We strive to provide outstanding customer service by improving the quality of the initial installation of subscriber equipment, improving the reliability of our equipment, better educating our customers about our products and services, and resolving customer problems promptly and effectively when they arise.
 
•                  Great Value.  We have historically been viewed as the low-cost provider in the pay-TV industry in the U.S. because we seek to offer the lowest everyday prices available to consumers after introductory promotions expire.
 
Programming.  We provide programming that includes more than: (i) 270 basic video channels, (ii) 70 Sirius Satellite Radio music channels, (iii) 30 premium movie channels, (iv) 35 regional and specialty sports channels, (v) 3,300 standard definition and HD local channels, (vi) 300 Latino and international channels, and (vii) 70 channels of pay-per-view content.  Although we distribute over 3,300 local channels, a subscriber typically may only receive the local channels available in the subscriber’s home market.  As of December 31, 2012, we provided local channels in standard definition in all 210 TV markets in the U.S. and local channels in HD in more than 170 markets in the U.S., serving approximately 97% of TV households.
 
Receiver Systems.  Our subscribers receive programming via equipment that includes a small satellite dish, digital set-top receivers, and remote controls.  Some of our advanced receiver models feature DVRs, HD capability, multiple tuners (which allow independent viewing on separate televisions) and Internet-protocol compatibility (which allows consumers to view movies and other content on their televisions via the Internet and a broadband connection).  We rely on EchoStar to design and manufacture all of our new receivers and certain related components.  See “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”
 
Blockbuster.  On April 26, 2011, we completed the Blockbuster Acquisition.  Blockbuster primarily offers movies and video games for sale and rental through multiple distribution channels such as retail stores, by-mail, digital devices, the blockbuster.com website and the BLOCKBUSTER On Demand service.  The Blockbuster Acquisition is intended to complement our core business of delivering high-quality video entertainment to consumers.
 
Blockbuster@Home.  Blockbuster@HomeTM gives DISH subscribers access to more than 100,000 DVD movies, TV shows and games by mail with unlimited in-store exchanges, streaming access to more than 10,000 movies and TV shows via their TV and online access to more than 25,000 movies and TV shows via their computer.
 
dishNET.  On September 27, 2012, we began marketing our satellite broadband service under the dishNET brand.  This service leverages advanced technology and high-powered satellites launched by Hughes and ViaSat to provide broadband coverage nationwide.  This service primarily targets approximately 15 million rural residents that are underserved, or unserved, by wireline broadband, and provides download speeds of up to 10 megabits of data per second (“Mbps”).  We lease the customer premise equipment to subscribers and generally pay Hughes and ViaSat a wholesale rate per subscriber on a monthly basis.  Currently, we generally utilize our existing DISH distribution channels under similar incentive arrangements as our pay-TV business to acquire new broadband subscribers.
 
In addition to the dishNET branded satellite broadband service, we also offer wireline voice and broadband services under the dishNET brand as a competitive local exchange carrier to consumers living in a 14-state region (Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming).  Our dishNET branded wireline broadband service provides download speeds of up to 20 Mbps.
 
2

Table of Contents
 
We primarily bundle our dishNET branded services with our DISH branded pay-TV service, to offer customers a single bill, payment and customer service option, which includes a discount for bundled services.  In addition, we market and sell our dishNET branded services on a stand-alone basis.
 
DISHOnline.com.  DISHOnline.com gives DISH subscribers the ability to watch television programs, movies, and clips online at no additional charge with their paid subscription to qualifying programming and compatible equipment.  DISHOnline.com offers more than 325,000 movies, television shows, clips and trailers.
 
DISH Anywhere (formerly DISH Remote Access).  DISH Anywhere gives subscribers the ability to remotely control certain features of their DVRs as well as view live TV and DVR recordings (with required compatible hardware) using the DISH Anywhere application on compatible devices such as smartphones and tablets, or on laptops and home computers by accessing dishanywhere.com.
 
Content Delivery
 
Digital Broadcast Operations Centers.  The principal digital broadcast operations facilities we use are EchoStar’s facilities located in Cheyenne, Wyoming and Gilbert, Arizona.  We also use four regional digital broadcast operations facilities and four micro digital broadcast operations facilities owned and operated by EchoStar that allow us to maximize the use of the spot beam capabilities of certain owned and leased satellites.  Programming content is delivered to these facilities by fiber or satellite and processed, compressed, encrypted and then uplinked to satellites for delivery to consumers.  EchoStar provides certain broadcast services to us, including teleport services such as transmission and downlinking, channel origination services, and channel management services pursuant to a broadcast agreement ending on December 31, 2016.  See Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our Related Party Transactions with EchoStar.
 
Satellites.  Our DISH programming is primarily delivered to customers using satellites that operate in the “Ku” band portion of the microwave radio spectrum.  The Ku-band is divided into two spectrum segments.  The portion of the Ku-band that allows the use of higher power satellites — 12.2 to 12.7 GHz over the United States — is known as the Broadcast Satellite Service band, which is also referred to as the Direct Broadcast Satellite (“DBS”) band.  The portion of the Ku-band that utilizes lower power satellites — 11.7 to 12.2 GHz over the United States — is known as the Fixed Satellite Service (“FSS”) band.
 
Most of our programming is currently delivered using DBS satellites.  To accommodate more bandwidth-intensive HD programming and other needs, we continue to explore opportunities to expand our satellite capacity through the acquisition of new spectrum, the launching of more technologically advanced satellites, and the more efficient use of existing spectrum via, among other things, better modulation and compression technologies.
 
We own or lease capacity on 15 DBS satellites in geostationary orbit approximately 22,300 miles above the equator.  For further information concerning these satellites and satellite anomalies, please see the table and discussion under “Satellites” below.
 
Conditional Access System.  Our conditional access system secures our programming content using encryption so that only authorized customers can access our programming.  We use microchips embedded in credit card-sized access cards, called “smart cards,” or security chips in our receiver systems to control access to authorized programming content (“Security Access Devices”).
 
Our signal encryption has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as Security Access Device replacement programs and updates in security software, that are intended to make signal theft more difficult.  It has been our prior experience that security measures may only be effective for short periods of time or not at all and that we remain susceptible to additional signal theft.  During 2009, we completed the replacement of our Security Access Devices and re-secured our system.  We expect additional future replacements of these devices will be necessary to keep our system secure.  We cannot ensure that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our programming content and we may incur additional costs in the future if our system’s security is compromised.
 
3

Table of Contents
 
Distribution Channels
 
While we offer receiver systems and programming through direct sales channels, a majority of our new subscriber activations are generated through independent third parties such as small satellite retailers, direct marketing groups, local and regional consumer electronics stores, nationwide retailers, and telecommunications companies.  In general, we pay these independent third parties a mix of upfront and monthly incentives to solicit orders for our services and provide customer service.  In addition, we partner with certain telecommunications companies to bundle DISH branded programming with broadband and/or voice services on a single bill.
 
Competition
 
As of December 31, 2012, our 14.056 million subscribers represent approximately 14% of pay-TV subscribers in the United States.  We face substantial competition from established pay-TV providers and increasing competition from companies providing/facilitating the delivery of video content via the Internet to computers, televisions, and mobile devices.  As of September 30, 2012, more than 100 million households subscribe to a pay-TV service.
 
•                  Other Direct Broadcast Satellite Operators.  We compete directly with the DirecTV Group, Inc., or DirecTV, the largest satellite TV provider in the U.S. which had 20.0 million subscribers as of September 30, 2012, representing approximately 20% of pay-TV subscribers.
 
•                  Cable Television Companies.  We encounter substantial competition in the pay-TV industry from numerous cable television companies that operate via franchise licenses across the U.S.  According to the National Cable & Telecommunications Association, 99% of U.S. housing units are passed by cable.  As of September 30, 2012, cable television companies have more than 56.8 million subscribers, representing approximately 57% of pay-TV subscribers.  Cable companies are typically able to bundle their video services with broadband Internet access and voice services and many have significant investments in companies that provide programming content.
 
•                  Telecommunications Companies.  Large telecommunications companies have upgraded older copper wire lines with fiber optic lines in certain markets.  These fiber optic lines provide high capacity bandwidth, enabling telecommunications companies to offer video content that can be bundled with their broadband Internet access and voice services.  In particular, AT&T and Verizon have built fiber-optic based networks to provide video services in substantial portions of their service areas.  As of September 30, 2012, AT&T and Verizon had approximately 4.3 million U-verse and 4.6 million FiOS TV subscribers, respectively.  These telecommunications companies represent approximately 9% of pay-TV subscribers.
 
•                  Internet Delivered Video.  We face competition from content providers and other companies who distribute video directly to consumers over the Internet.  Programming offered over the Internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of broadband networks have improved.  Significant changes in consumer behavior with regard to the means by which they obtain video entertainment and information in response to this emerging digital media competition could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or otherwise disrupt our business.
 
•                  Wireless Mobile Video.  We may also face increasing competition from wireless telecommunications providers who offer mobile video offerings.  These mobile video offerings will likely become more prevalent in the marketplace as wireless telecommunications providers implement and expand the fourth generation of wireless communications.
 
Acquisition of New Subscribers
 
We incur significant upfront costs to acquire subscribers, including advertising, retailer incentives, equipment subsidies and installation.  In addition, customer promotions to acquire new subscribers result in less programming revenue to us over the promotional period.  While we attempt to recoup these upfront costs over the lives of their subscriptions, there can be no assurance that we will.  We employ business rules such as credit requirements and contractual commitments, and we strive to provide outstanding customer service, to increase the likelihood of
 
4

Table of Contents
 
customers keeping their DISH service over longer periods of time.  Our subscriber acquisition costs may vary significantly from period to period.
 
Advertising.  We use print, radio, television and Internet media, on a local and national basis to motivate potential subscribers to call DISH, visit our website or contact independent third party retailers.
 
Retailer Incentives.  In general, we pay retailers an upfront incentive for each new subscriber they bring to DISH that results in the activation of qualified programming and generally pay retailers small monthly incentives for up to 60 months; provided, among other things:  (i) the retailer continuously markets, promotes and solicits orders for DISH products and services; (ii) the retailer continuously provides customer service to DISH pay-TV subscribers; and (iii) the customer continuously subscribes to qualified programming.
 
Equipment.  We incur significant upfront costs to provide our new subscribers with in-home equipment, including advanced HD and DVR receivers, which most of our new subscribers lease from us.  While we seek to recoup these upfront equipment costs mostly through monthly fees, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving that objective.  In addition, upon deactivation of a subscriber we may refurbish and redeploy their equipment which lowers future upfront costs.  However, our ability to capitalize on these cost savings may be limited as technological advances and consumer demand for new features may render the returned equipment obsolete.
 
Installation.  We incur significant upfront costs to install satellite dishes and receivers in the homes of our new customers.
 
New Customer Promotions.  We often offer programming at no additional charge and/or promotional pricing during introductory periods for new subscribers.  While such promotional activities have an economic cost and reduce our subscriber-related revenue, they are not included in our definitions of subscriber acquisition costs or the SAC metric.
 
Customer Retention
 
We incur significant costs to retain our existing customers, mostly by upgrading their equipment to HD and DVR receivers.  As with our subscriber acquisition costs, our retention upgrade spending includes the cost of equipment and installation.  In certain circumstances, we also offer programming at no additional charge and/or promotional pricing for limited periods for existing customers in exchange for a contractual commitment.  A component of our retention efforts includes the installation of equipment for customers who move.  Our subscriber retention costs may vary significantly from period to period.
 
Customer Service
 
Customer Service Centers.  We use both internally-operated and outsourced customer service centers to handle calls from prospective and existing customers.  We strive to answer customer calls promptly and to resolve issues effectively on the first call.  We intend to better use the Internet and other applications to provide our customers with more self-service capabilities over time.  During the first quarter 2012, we implemented new sales and customer care systems to improve the customer experience.  In addition, during 2011, we implemented a new interactive voice response system.
 
Installation and Other In-Home Service Operations.  High-quality installations, upgrades, and in-home repairs are critical to providing good customer service.  Such in-home service is performed by both DISH Network employees and a network of independent contractors and includes, among other things, priority technical support, replacement equipment, cabling and power surge repairs for a monthly fee.  During 2011, we implemented a new in-home appointment scheduling system.
 
Subscriber Management.  We presently use, and depend on, CSG Systems International, Inc.’s (“CSG”) software system for the majority of DISH Network subscriber billing and related functions.  During the first quarter 2012, we implemented a new billing system with CSG.
 
5

Table of Contents
 
Wireless Spectrum
 
On March 2, 2012, the FCC approved the transfer of 40 MHz of 2 GHz wireless spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America and TerreStar to us.  On March 9, 2012, we completed the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction, pursuant to which we acquired, among other things, certain satellite assets and wireless spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America and TerreStar.  In addition, during the fourth quarter 2011, we and Sprint entered into a mutual release and settlement agreement (the “Sprint Settlement Agreement”) pursuant to which all issues then being disputed relating to the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction were resolved between us and Sprint, including, but not limited to, issues relating to costs allegedly incurred by Sprint to relocate users from the spectrum then licensed to DBSD North America and TerreStar.  Pursuant to the Sprint Settlement Agreement, we made a net payment of approximately $114 million to Sprint.  The total consideration to acquire these assets was approximately $2.860 billion.  This amount includes $1.364 billion for the DBSD Transaction, $1.382 billion for the TerreStar Transaction, and the net payment of $114 million to Sprint pursuant to the Sprint Settlement Agreement.
 
Our consolidated FCC applications for approval of the license transfers from DBSD North America and TerreStar were accompanied by requests for waiver of the FCC’s Mobile Satellite Service (“MSS”) “integrated service” and spare satellite requirements and various technical provisions.  The FCC denied our requests for waiver of the integrated service and spare satellite requirements but did not initially act on our request for waiver of the various technical provisions.  On March 21, 2012, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rule Making (“NPRM”) proposing the elimination of the integrated service, spare satellite and various technical requirements attached to the 2 GHz licenses.  On December 11, 2012, the FCC approved rules that eliminated these requirements and gave notice of its proposed modification of our 2 GHz authorizations to, among other things, allow us to offer single-mode terrestrial terminals to customers who do not desire satellite functionality.  On February 15, 2013, the FCC issued an order, which will become effective on March 7, 2013, modifying our 2 GHz licenses to add terrestrial operating authority.  The FCC’s order of modification has imposed certain limitations on the use of a portion of this spectrum, including interference protections for other spectrum users and power and emission limits that we presently believe could render 5 MHz of our uplink spectrum effectively unusable for terrestrial services and limit our ability to fully utilize the remaining 15 MHz of our uplink spectrum for terrestrial services.  These limitations could, among other things, impact the finalization of technical standards associated with our wireless business, and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize these licenses.  The new rules also mandate certain interim and final build-out requirements for the licenses.  By March 2017, we must provide terrestrial signal coverage and offer terrestrial service to at least 40% of the aggregate population represented by all of the areas covered by the licenses (the “2 GHz Interim Build-out Requirement”).  By March 2020, we must provide terrestrial signal coverage and offer terrestrial service to at least 70% of the population in each area covered by an individual license (the “2 GHz Final Build-out Requirement”).  If we fail to meet the 2 GHz Interim Build-out Requirement, the 2 GHz Final Build-out Requirement will be accelerated by one year, from March 2020 to March 2019.  If we fail to meet the 2 GHz Final Build-out Requirement, our terrestrial authorization for each license area in which we fail to meet the requirement will terminate.  In addition, the FCC is currently considering rules for a spectrum band that is adjacent to our 2 GHz licenses, known as the “H Block.”  If the FCC adopts rules for the H block that do not adequately protect our 2 GHz licenses, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize the 2 GHz licenses.
 
As a result of the completion of the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction, we will likely be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others to, among other things, finance the commercialization and build-out requirements of these licenses and our integration efforts including compliance with regulations applicable to the acquired licenses.  Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization, build-out, and integration efforts, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly.  Additionally, recent consolidation in the wireless telecommunications industry, may, among other things, limit our available options, including our ability to partner with others.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these spectrum licenses or that we will be able to profitably deploy the assets represented by these spectrum licenses, which may affect the carrying value of these assets and our future financial condition or results of operations.
 
6

Table of Contents
 
In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless spectrum licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009.  These licenses mandate certain interim and final build-out requirements.  By June 2013, we must provide signal coverage and offer service to at least 35% of the geographic area in each area covered by each individual license (the “700 MHz Interim Build-out Requirement”).  By the end of our license term (June 2019), we must provide signal coverage and offer service to at least 70% of the geographic area in each area covered by each individual license (the “700 MHz Final Build-out Requirement”).  We have recently notified the FCC of our plans to commence signal coverage in select cities within certain of these areas, but we have not yet developed plans for providing signal coverage and offering service in all of these areas.  If we fail to meet the 700 MHz Interim Build-out Requirement, the term of our licenses will be reduced, from June 2019 to June 2017, and we could face possible fines and the reduction of license area(s).  If we fail to meet the 700 MHz Final Build-out Requirement, our authorization for each license area in which we fail to meet the requirement will terminate.
 
New Business Opportunities
 
From time to time we evaluate opportunities for strategic investments or acquisitions that may complement our current services and products, enhance our technical capabilities, improve or sustain our competitive position, or otherwise offer growth opportunities.
 
Relationship with EchoStar
 
On January 1, 2008, we completed the distribution of our technology and set-top box business and certain infrastructure assets (the “Spin-off”) into a separate publicly-traded company, EchoStar Corporation (“EchoStar”).  DISH Network and EchoStar operate as separate publicly-traded companies, and neither entity has any ownership interest in the other.  However, a substantial majority of the voting power of the shares of both DISH Network and EchoStar is owned beneficially by Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, or by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family.  EchoStar is our sole supplier of digital set-top boxes and digital broadcast operations.  In addition, EchoStar is a key supplier of transponder capacity and related services to us.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.
 
7

Table of Contents
 
SATELLITES
 
DBS Satellites.  Most of our programming is currently delivered using DBS satellites.  We continue to explore opportunities to expand our available satellite capacity through the use of other available spectrum.  Increasing our available spectrum is particularly important as more bandwidth intensive HD programming is produced and to address new video and data applications consumers may desire in the future.  We currently utilize satellites in geostationary orbit approximately 22,300 miles above the equator detailed in the table below.
 

 

(1)         See Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our Related Party Transactions with EchoStar.
(2)         During the fourth quarter 2012, the estimated useful life of these satellites was extended from 12 years to 15 years on a prospective basis based on management’s assessment of, among other things, these satellites’ useful lives, technological obsolescence risk, estimated remaining fuel life and estimated useful lives of our other owned and leased DBS satellites.  This increase in the estimated useful life of these satellites had an immaterial effect on our results of operations.
(3)         We lease a portion of the capacity on these satellites.
(4)         We generally have the option to renew each lease on a year-to-year basis through the end of the respective satellite’s useful life.
 
Recent Developments
 
Recent developments with respect to certain of our satellites are discussed below.
 
QuetzSat-1.  During 2008, we entered into a transponder service agreement with EchoStar expiring in November 2021 for the lease of 24 DBS transponders on QuetzSat-1.  QuetzSat-1 was launched on September 29, 2011 and was placed into service during the fourth quarter 2011 by EchoStar.  During the third quarter 2012, we and EchoStar entered into an agreement pursuant to which we sublease back to EchoStar five of the 24 DBS transponders on the QuetzSat-1 satellite.  During January 2013, QuetzSat-1 was moved to the 77 degree orbital location, and we commenced commercial operations at that location in February 2013.  See Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
8

Table of Contents
 
EchoStar XVI.  During December 2009, we entered into a transponder service agreement with EchoStar to lease all of the capacity on EchoStar XVI, a DBS satellite, after its service commencement date.  EchoStar XVI was launched during November 2012 to replace EchoStar XV at the 61.5 degree orbital location and is currently in service.  Under the original transponder service agreement, the initial term generally expired upon the earlier of: (i) the end-of-life or replacement of the satellite; (ii) the date the satellite failed; (iii) the date the transponder(s) on which service was being provided under the agreement failed; or (iv) ten years following the actual service commencement date.  Prior to expiration of the initial term, we also had the option to renew on a year-to-year basis through the end-of-life of the satellite.  Effective December 21, 2012, we and EchoStar amended the transponder service agreement to, among other things, change the initial term to generally expire upon the earlier of: (i) the end-of-life or replacement of the satellite; (ii) the date the satellite fails; (iii) the date the transponder(s) on which service is being provided under the agreement fails; or (iv) four years following the actual service commencement date.  Prior to expiration of the initial term, we have the option to renew for an additional six-year period.  Prior to expiration of the initial term, EchoStar also has the right, upon certain conditions, to renew for an additional six-year period.  If either we or EchoStar exercise our respective six-year renewal options, then we have the option to renew for an additional five-year period prior to expiration of the then-current term.  
 
2 GHz Satellites.  As a result of the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction, three 2 GHz satellites were added to our satellite fleet, including two in-orbit satellites and one satellite under construction, discussed below.  While the FCC’s recently issued rules applicable to our 2 GHz authorizations no longer require an integrated satellite component, we may use these satellites in our commercialization of wireless spectrum or for other commercial purposes.  In addition, T1, which we acquired through the TerreStar Transaction, is subject to certain Canadian satellite regulations, including, among other things, an integrated satellite component requirement.  We are evaluating our options for these satellites and depending on our eventual use of these satellites, we may need to impair them in the future.
 
D1.  D1, formerly known as EchoStar G1, was launched in April 2008 by DBSD North America and is currently located at the 92.85 degree orbital location.  D1 was designed to meet a minimum 15-year useful life.  This satellite has currently not been placed into its intended commercial service as we evaluate our options for future uses.
 
T1.  T1, formerly known as EchoStar T1, was launched in July 2009 by TerreStar and currently operates at the 111.1 degree orbital location.  T1 was designed to meet a minimum 15-year useful life.  Prior to the TerreStar Transaction, this satellite experienced certain solar array anomalies.  During the fourth quarter 2012, the primary attitude control electronics unit, which controls the orientation of the satellite, experienced certain anomalous behavior.  This anomaly is currently under investigation by the manufacturer.  The redundant attitude control electronics unit is currently being used for operations while the investigation continues.  While this most recent and prior anomalies did not reduce the estimated useful life of the satellite to less than 15 years or impact commercial operation of the satellite, there can be no assurance that future anomalies will not reduce its useful life or impact its commercial operation.  This satellite, which is being depreciated, carries a nominal amount of traffic to support a service for a limited number of customers.  During 2012, this service experienced certain intermittent outages.  We are evaluating our options for this satellite and its associated operations.
 
T2.  In December 2007, TerreStar entered into an agreement with Space Systems/Loral, Inc. (“SS/L”) for the design and manufacture of T2, formerly known as EchoStar T2.  Since the construction of T2 is almost finished, the satellite could be completed during 2013.  We do not currently have an expected launch date for T2.
 
Satellites Under Construction
 
EchoStar XVIII.  On September 7, 2012, we entered into a contract with SS/L for the construction of EchoStar XVIII, a DBS satellite with spot beam technology designed for, among other things, HD programming.  This satellite is expected to be launched during 2015.
 
9

Table of Contents
 
Satellite Anomalies
 
Operation of our DISH branded pay-TV service requires that we have adequate satellite transmission capacity for the programming we offer.  Moreover, current competitive conditions require that we continue to expand our offering of new programming.  While we generally have had in-orbit satellite capacity sufficient to transmit our existing channels and some backup capacity to recover the transmission of certain critical programming, our backup capacity is limited.
 
In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may need to acquire or lease additional satellite capacity or relocate one of our other satellites and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite.  Such a failure could result in a prolonged loss of critical programming or a significant delay in our plans to expand programming as necessary to remain competitive and thus may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
Prior to 2012, certain of our owned and leased satellites have experienced anomalies, some of which have had a significant adverse impact on their remaining useful life and/or commercial operation.  There can be no assurance that future anomalies will not further impact the remaining useful life and/or commercial operation of any of the satellites in our fleet.  See “Long-Lived Assets” in Note 2 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  There can be no assurance that we can recover critical transmission capacity in the event one or more of our in-orbit satellites were to fail.  We generally do not carry commercial insurance for any of the in-orbit satellites that we use, other than certain satellites leased from third parties, and therefore, we will bear the risk associated with any uninsured in-orbit satellite failures.  Recent developments with respect to certain of our satellites are discussed below.
 
Owned Satellites
 
EchoStar I.  During the first quarter 2012, we determined that EchoStar I experienced a communications receiver anomaly.  The communications receivers process signals sent from our uplink center for transmission back to our customers by the satellite.  While this anomaly did not impact commercial operation of the satellite, there can be no assurance that future anomalies will not impact its future commercial operation.  EchoStar I was fully depreciated during 2007.
 
EchoStar VII.  Prior to 2012, EchoStar VII experienced certain thruster failures.  During the fourth quarter 2012, we determined that EchoStar VII experienced an additional thruster failure.  Thrusters control the satellite’s location and orientation.  While this anomaly did not reduce the estimated useful life of the satellite to less than 15 years or impact commercial operation of the satellite, there can be no assurance that future anomalies will not reduce its useful life or impact its commercial operation.
 
EchoStar XI.  During the first quarter 2012, we determined that EchoStar XI experienced solar array anomalies that reduced the total power available for use by the satellite.  While these anomalies did not reduce the estimated useful life of the satellite to less than 15 years or impact commercial operation of the satellite, there can be no assurance that future anomalies will not reduce its useful life or impact its commercial operation.
 
EchoStar XIV.  During the third quarter 2011 and the first quarter 2012, we determined that EchoStar XIV experienced solar array anomalies that reduced the total power available for use by the satellite.  While these anomalies did not reduce the estimated useful life of the satellite to less than 15 years or impact commercial operation of the satellite, there can be no assurance that future anomalies will not reduce its useful life or impact its commercial operation.
 
Leased Satellites
 
EchoStar VI.  Prior to 2012, EchoStar VI experienced solar array anomalies which impacted the commercial operation of the satellite.  EchoStar VI also previously experienced the loss of traveling wave tube amplifiers (“TWTAs”).  During the first quarter 2012, EchoStar VI experienced the loss of two additional TWTAs increasing the total number of TWTAs lost to five.  During the second quarter 2012, EchoStar VI lost an additional solar array string, which reduced the total power available for use by the satellite.  While the recent losses of TWTAs and the
 
10

Table of Contents
 
solar array strings did not impact current commercial operation of the satellite, there can be no assurance that future anomalies will not impact its commercial operation.
 
EchoStar XII.  Prior to 2012, EchoStar XII experienced solar array anomalies that reduced the total power available for use by the satellite.  During September and November 2012 and January 2013, EchoStar XII experienced additional solar array anomalies, which further reduced the total power available for use by the satellite.  An investigation of the anomalies is continuing.  Since the number of useable transponders on EchoStar XII depends on, among other things, whether EchoStar XII is operated in CONUS, spot beam, or hybrid CONUS/spot beam mode, we are unable to determine at this time the actual number of transponders that will be available at any given time or how many transponders can be used during the remaining estimated life of the satellite.  Additional solar array anomalies are likely to continue to degrade operational capability in all of the possible modes.  This satellite is currently in-service and projected to be an in-orbit spare effective March 1, 2013.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
 
Our operations, particularly our DBS operations and our wireless spectrum licenses, are subject to significant government regulation and oversight, primarily by the FCC and, to a certain extent, by Congress, other federal agencies and foreign, state and local authorities.  Depending upon the circumstances, noncompliance with legislation or regulations promulgated by these entities could result in limitations on, or in the suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, the termination or loss of contracts or the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
Furthermore, the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to video programming, satellite services, wireless telecommunications, broadband, the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business.  If we become subject to new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation that govern Internet network neutrality, for example, we may be required to incur additional expenses or alter our business model.  The manner in which legislation governing Internet network neutrality may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
Wireless services and our wireless spectrum licenses are subject to regulation by the FCC and other federal, state and local, as well as international, governmental authorities.  These governmental authorities could adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect our business prospects.  The licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless telecommunications systems are regulated by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, other federal and international, state and local regulatory agencies.  In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to how radio spectrum is used by licensees, the nature of the services that licensees may offer and how the services may be offered, and resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands.  The FCC grants wireless licenses for terms of generally ten years that are subject to renewal or revocation.  There can be no assurances that our wireless spectrum licenses will be renewed.  Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given license area could result in revocation of the license for that license area.  For further information related to our licenses and build-out requirements related to our 700 MHz and 2 GHz wireless spectrum licenses see “Item 1A.  Risk Factors.”
 
The following summary of regulatory developments and legislation in the United States is not intended to describe all present and proposed government regulation and legislation affecting the video programming distribution, satellite services, wireless telecommunications and broadband industries.  Government regulations that are currently the subject of judicial or administrative proceedings, legislative hearings or administrative proposals could change our industries to varying degrees.  We cannot predict either the outcome of these proceedings or any potential impact they might have on the industry or on our operations.
 
11

Table of Contents
 
FCC Regulations Governing our DBS Operations
 
FCC Jurisdiction over our DBS Satellite Operations.  The Communications Act gives the FCC broad authority to regulate the operations of satellite companies.  Specifically, the Communications Act gives the FCC regulatory jurisdiction over the following areas relating to communications satellite operations:
 
•                  the assignment of satellite radio frequencies and orbital locations, the licensing of satellites and earth stations, the granting of related authorizations, and evaluation of the fitness of a company to be a licensee;
•                  approval for the relocation of satellites to different orbital locations or the replacement of an existing satellite with a new satellite;
•                  ensuring compliance with the terms and conditions of such assignments, licenses, authorizations and approvals; including required timetables for construction and operation of satellites;
•                  avoiding interference with other radio frequency emitters; and
•                  ensuring compliance with other applicable provisions of the Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations.
 
To obtain FCC satellite licenses and authorizations, satellite operators must satisfy strict legal, technical and financial qualification requirements.  Once issued, these licenses and authorizations are subject to a number of conditions including, among other things, satisfaction of ongoing due diligence obligations, construction milestones, and various reporting requirements.  Necessary federal approval of these applications may not be granted, may not be granted in a timely manner, or may be granted subject to conditions which may be cumbersome.
 
Overview of our DBS Satellites, Authorizations and Contractual Rights for Satellite Capacity.  Our satellites are located in orbital positions, or slots, that are designated by their western longitude.  An orbital position describes both a physical location and an assignment of spectrum in the applicable frequency band.  Each DBS orbital position has 500 MHz of available Ku-band spectrum that is divided into 32 frequency channels.  Through digital compression technology, we can currently transmit between nine and 13 standard definition digital video channels per DBS frequency channel.  Several of our satellites also include spot-beam technology that enables us to increase the number of markets where we provide local channels, but reduces the number of video channels that could otherwise be offered across the entire United States.
 
The FCC has licensed us to operate a total of 50 DBS frequency channels at the following orbital locations:
 
•                  21 DBS frequency channels at the 119 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to CONUS;
•                  29 DBS frequency channels at the 110 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to CONUS; and
 
We previously held a license for 32 DBS frequency channels at the 148 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to the Western United States.  On May 31, 2012, the FCC’s International Bureau announced the termination of this license.  We had not had a satellite positioned at the 148 degree orbital location since the retirement of EchoStar V in August 2009.
 
In addition, we currently lease or have entered into agreements to lease capacity on satellites using the following spectrum at the following orbital locations:
 
•                  500 MHz of Ku-band FSS spectrum that is divided into 32 frequency channels at the 118.7 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian FSS slot that is capable of providing service to the continental United States, Alaska and Hawaii;
•                  32 DBS frequency channels at the 129 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian DBS slot that is capable of providing service to most of the United States;
•                  32 DBS frequency channels at the 61.5 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to most of the United States;
 
12

Table of Contents
 
•                  24 DBS frequency channels at the 77 degree orbital location, which is a Mexican DBS slot that is capable of providing service to most of the United States and Mexico; and
•                  32 DBS frequency channels at the 72.7 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian DBS slot that is capable of providing service to the United States.
 
We also have month-to-month FSS capacity available from EchoStar on a satellite located at the 121 degree orbital location.
 
Duration of our DBS Satellite Licenses.  Generally speaking, all of our satellite licenses are subject to expiration unless renewed by the FCC.  The term of each of our DBS licenses is ten years.  Our licenses are currently set to expire at various times.  In addition, at various times we have relied on special temporary authorizations for our operations.  A special temporary authorization is granted for a period of only 180 days or less, subject again to possible renewal by the FCC.  Generally, our FCC licenses and special temporary authorizations have been renewed by the FCC on a routine basis, but there can be no assurance that the FCC will continue to do so.
 
Opposition and Other Risks to our Licenses.  Several third parties have opposed, and we expect them to continue to oppose, some of our FCC satellite authorizations and pending and future requests to the FCC for extensions, modifications, waivers and approvals of our licenses.  In addition, we must comply with numerous FCC reporting, filing and other requirements in connection with our satellite authorizations.  Consequently, it is possible the FCC could revoke, terminate, condition or decline to extend or renew certain of our authorizations or licenses.
 
4.5 Degree Spacing Tweener Satellites.  The FCC has proposed to allow so-called “tweener” DBS operations — DBS satellites operating at orbital locations 4.5 degrees (half of the usual nine degrees) away from other DBS satellites.  The FCC granted authorizations to Spectrum Five and EchoStar for tweener satellites at the 86.5 and 114.5 degree orbital locations.  Even though these authorizations were subsequently cancelled because the FCC determined that the licensees did not meet certain milestone requirements, Spectrum Five and EchoStar have requested reconsideration of the FCC’s determinations for both of these licensees.  Tweener operations close to our licensed orbital locations (including Spectrum Five’s proposed use at the 114.5 degree orbital location) could cause harmful interference to our service and constrain our future operations.  The FCC has not completed its rulemaking on the operating and service rules for tweener satellites.
 
Interference from Other Services Sharing Satellite Spectrum.  The FCC has adopted rules that allow non-geostationary orbit fixed satellite services to operate on a co-primary basis in the same frequency band as DBS and FSS.  The FCC has also authorized the use of multichannel video distribution & data service (“MVDDS”) licenses in the DBS band.  MVDDS licenses were auctioned in 2004.  MVDDS systems are now only beginning to be commercially deployed in a few markets.  We have MVDDS licenses in 82 out of 214 geographical license areas.  Despite regulatory provisions intended to protect DBS and FSS operations from harmful interference, there can be no assurance that operations by other satellites or terrestrial communication services in the DBS and FSS bands will not interfere with our DBS and FSS operations and adversely affect our business.
 
International Satellite Competition and Interference.  DirecTV has obtained FCC authority to provide service to the United States from a Canadian DBS orbital slot, and EchoStar has obtained authority to provide service to the United States from both a Mexican and a Canadian DBS orbital slot.  Further, we have also received authority to do the same from a Canadian DBS orbital slot at 129 degrees and a Canadian FSS orbital slot at 118.7 degrees.  The possibility that the FCC will allow service to the U.S. from additional foreign slots may permit additional competition against us from other satellite providers.  It may also provide a means by which to increase our available satellite capacity in the United States.  In addition, a number of administrations, such as Great Britain and the Netherlands, have requested to add orbital locations serving the U.S. close to our licensed slots.  Such operations could cause harmful interference to our satellites and constrain our future operations.
 
Rules Relating to Broadcast Services.  The FCC imposes different rules for “subscription” and “broadcast” services.  We believe that because we offer a subscription programming service, we are not subject to many of the regulatory obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees.  However, we cannot be certain whether the FCC will find in the future that we must comply with regulatory obligations as a broadcast licensee, and certain parties have requested that we be treated as a broadcaster.  If the FCC determines that we are a broadcast licensee, it could
 
13

Table of Contents
 
require us to comply with all regulatory obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees, which in certain respects are subject to more burdensome regulation than subscription television service providers.
 
Public Interest Requirements.  The FCC imposes certain public interest obligations on our DBS licenses.  These obligations require us to set aside four percent of our channel capacity exclusively for noncommercial programming for which we must charge programmers below-cost rates and for which we may not impose additional charges on subscribers.  The Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010 (“STELA”) requires the FCC to decrease this set-aside to 3.5 percent for satellite carriers who provide retransmission of state public affairs networks in 15 states and are otherwise qualified.  The FCC, however, has not yet determined whether we qualify for this decrease in set-aside.  The obligation to provide noncommercial programming may displace programming for which we could earn commercial rates and could adversely affect our financial results.  We cannot be sure that, if the FCC were to review our methodology for processing public interest carriage requests, computing the channel capacity we must set aside or determining the rates that we charge public interest programmers, it would find them in compliance with the public interest requirements.
 
Separate Security, Plug and Play.  Cable companies are required by law to separate the security from the other functionality of their set-top boxes.  Set-top boxes used by DBS providers are not currently subject to such separate security requirement.  However, the FCC is considering a possible expansion of that requirement to DBS set-top boxes.  Also, the FCC adopted the so-called “plug and play” standard for compatibility between digital television sets and cable systems.  That standard was developed through negotiations involving the cable and consumer electronics industries, but not the satellite television industry.  The FCC’s adoption of the standard was accompanied by certain rules regarding copy protection measures that were applicable to us.  We appealed the FCC’s decision regarding the copy protection measures to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (“D.C. Circuit”) and on January 15, 2013 the D.C. Circuit vacated the FCC’s decision.  The FCC is also considering various proposals to establish two-way digital cable “plug and play” rules.  That proceeding also asks about means to incorporate all pay-TV providers into its “plug and play” rules.  The cable industry and consumer electronics companies have reached a “tru2way” commercial arrangement to resolve many of the outstanding issues in this docket.  We cannot predict whether the FCC will impose rules on our DBS operations that are based on cable system architectures or the private cable/consumer electronics tru2way commercial arrangement.  Complying with the separate security and other “plug and play” requirements would require potentially costly modifications to our set-top boxes and operations.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of this FCC proceeding.
 
Retransmission Consent.  The Copyright Act generally gives satellite companies a statutory copyright license to retransmit local broadcast channels by satellite back into the market from which they originated, subject to obtaining the retransmission consent of local network stations that do not elect “must carry” status, as required by the Communications Act.  If we fail to reach retransmission consent agreements with such broadcasters, we cannot carry their signals.  This could have an adverse effect on our strategy to compete with cable and other satellite companies that provide local signals.  While we have been able to reach retransmission consent agreements with most of these local network stations, there remain stations with which we have not been able to reach an agreement.  We cannot be sure that we will secure these agreements or that we will secure new agreements on acceptable terms, or at all, upon the expiration of our current retransmission consent agreements, some of which are short-term.  In recent years, national broadcasters have used their ownership of certain local broadcast stations to attempt to require us to carry additional cable programming in exchange for retransmission consent of their local broadcast stations.  These requirements may place constraints on available capacity on our satellites for other programming.  Furthermore, the rates we are charged for retransmitting local channels have been increasing.  We may be unable to pass these increased programming costs on to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  The FCC is currently considering changes to its rules governing retransmission consent disputes that are designed to provide more guidance to the negotiating parties on good-faith negotiation requirements and to improve notice to consumers in advance of possible service disruptions.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of this FCC proceeding.
 
Digital HD Carry-One, Carry-All Requirement.  To provide any full-power local broadcast signal in any market, we are required to retransmit all qualifying broadcast signals in that market (“carry-one, carry-all”).  The FCC adopted digital carriage rules that required DBS providers to phase in carry-one, carry-all obligations with respect to the carriage of full-power broadcasters’ HD signals by February 17, 2013 in markets in which they elect to provide local channels in HD.  We have met this requirement in all applicable markets.  In addition, STELA has imposed
 
14

Table of Contents
 
accelerated HD carriage requirements for noncommercial educational stations on DBS providers that do not have a certain contractual relationship with a certain number of such stations.  We have entered into such contractual relationships with the requisite number of PBS stations to comply with the requirements.  The carriage of additional HD signals on our pay-TV service could cause us to experience significant capacity constraints and prevent us from carrying additional popular national programs and/or carrying those national programs in HD.
 
In addition, there is a pending rulemaking before the FCC regarding whether to require DBS providers to carry all broadcast stations in a local market in both standard definition and HD if they carry any station in that market in both standard definition and HD.  If we were required to carry multiple versions of each broadcast station, we would have to dedicate more of our finite satellite capacity to each broadcast station.  We cannot predict the outcome or timing of that rulemaking process.
 
Distant Signals.  Pursuant to STELA, we have been able to obtain a waiver of a court injunction that previously prevented us from retransmitting certain distant network signals under a statutory copyright license.  Because of that waiver, we may once again provide distant network signals to eligible subscribers.  To qualify for that waiver, we are required to provide local service in all 210 local markets in the U.S. on an ongoing basis.  This condition poses a significant strain on our capacity.  Moreover, we may lose that waiver if we are found to have failed to provide local service in any of the 210 local markets.  If we lose the waiver, the injunction could be reinstated.  Furthermore, depending on the severity of the failure, we may also be subject to other sanctions, which may include, among other things, damages.  Pursuant to STELA, our compliance with certain conditions of the waiver is subject to continued oversight.
 
Cable Act and Program Access.  We purchase a large percentage of our programming from cable-affiliated programmers. Pursuant to the Cable Act of 1992 (“Cable Act”), cable providers had been prohibited from entering into exclusive contracts with cable-affiliated programmers.  The Cable Act directed that this prohibition expire after a certain period of time unless the FCC determined that the prohibition continued to be necessary.  On October 5, 2012, the FCC allowed this prohibition to expire.  While the FCC has issued a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking aimed at serving some of the same objectives as the prohibition, there can be no assurances that such protections will be adopted or be as effective as the prohibition if they are adopted.  In the event this decision is reconsidered by the FCC or reviewed by a court of appeals, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of any subsequent FCC decision.
 
As a result of the expiration of this prohibition on exclusivity, we may be limited in our ability to obtain access at all, or on nondiscriminatory terms, to programming from programmers that are affiliated with cable system operators.  In addition, any other changes in the Cable Act, and/or the FCC’s rules that implement the Cable Act, that currently limit the ability of cable-affiliated programmers to discriminate against competing businesses such as ours, could adversely affect our ability to acquire cable-affiliated programming at all or to acquire programming on non-discriminatory terms.
 
Furthermore, the FCC had imposed program access conditions on certain cable companies as a result of mergers, consolidations or affiliations with programmers.  The expiration of the exclusivity prohibition in the Cable Act triggered the termination of certain program access conditions that the FCC had imposed on Liberty Media (“Liberty”).  In July 2012, similar program access conditions that had applied to Time-Warner expired as previously scheduled.  These developments may adversely affect our ability to obtain Liberty’s and Time-Warner’s programming, or to obtain it on non-discriminatory terms.  In the case of certain types of programming affiliated with Comcast through its venture with General Electric, NBCUniversal Media, LLC (“NBCUniversal”), the prohibition on exclusivity will still apply until January 2018.  During that time, we have the right to subject the terms of access to NBCUniversal’s programming to binding arbitration if we and the programmer cannot reach agreement on terms, subject to FCC review.  There can be no assurance that this procedure will result in favorable terms for us or that the FCC conditions that establish this procedure will be prevented from expiring on their own terms.
 
In addition, affiliates of certain cable providers have denied us access to sports programming they feed to their cable systems terrestrially, rather than by satellite.  The FCC has held that new denials of such service are unfair if they have the purpose or effect of significantly hindering us from providing programming to consumers.  However, we cannot be sure that we can prevail in a complaint related to such programming and gain access to it.  Our continuing
 
15

 
 
Table of Contents
 
failure to access such programming could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete in regions serviced by these cable providers.
 
MDU Exclusivity.  The FCC has found that cable companies should not be permitted to have exclusive relationships with multiple dwelling units (e.g., apartment buildings).  In May 2009, the D.C. Circuit upheld the FCC’s decision.  While the FCC requested comments in November 2007 on whether DBS and Private Cable Operators should be prohibited from having similar relationships with multiple dwelling units, it has yet to make a formal decision.  If the cable exclusivity ban were to be extended to DBS providers, our ability to serve these types of buildings and communities would be adversely affected.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of the FCC’s consideration of this proposal.
 
Net Neutrality.  During 2010, the FCC imposed rules of nondiscrimination and transparency upon wireline broadband providers.  While this decision provides certain protection from discrimination by wireline broadband providers against our distribution of video content via the Internet, it may still permit wireline broadband providers to provide certain services over their wireline broadband network that are not subject to these requirements.  Although the FCC imposed similar transparency requirements on wireless broadband providers, which includes 2 GHz licenses, it declined to impose a nondiscrimination rule.  Instead, wireless broadband Internet providers are prohibited from blocking websites and applications that compete with voice and video telephony services.  The FCC’s net neutrality rules have been challenged in Federal court and could be curtailed or overturned if those challenges are successful.  It is uncertain how these requirements, even if they are affirmed by the Federal court of appeals, may be interpreted and enforced by the FCC; therefore, we cannot predict the practical effect of these rules on our ability to distribute our video content via the Internet.
 
Comcast-NBCUniversal Transaction.  Comcast and General Electric have joined their programming properties, including NBC, Bravo and many others, in a venture, NBCUniversal, controlled by Comcast, which was approved by the FCC and the Department of Justice in January 2011.  The FCC conditioned its approval on, among other things, Comcast complying with the terms of the FCC’s recent order on network neutrality (even if that order is vacated by judicial or legislative action) and Comcast licensing its affiliated content to us, other traditional pay-TV providers and certain providers of video services over the Internet on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, including, among others, price.  If Comcast does not license its affiliated content to us on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, we can seek binding arbitration and continue to carry such content while the arbitration is pending.  However, it is uncertain how these conditions may be interpreted and enforced by the FCC; therefore, we cannot predict the practical effect of these conditions.
 
FCC Regulation of our Wireless Spectrum Licenses
 
2 GHz Spectrum.  On March 2, 2012, the FCC approved the transfer of 40 MHz of 2 GHz wireless spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America and TerreStar to us.  On March 9, 2012, we completed the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction, pursuant to which we acquired, among other things, certain satellite assets and wireless spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America and TerreStar.  In addition, during the fourth quarter 2011, we and Sprint entered into the Sprint Settlement Agreement pursuant to which all issues then being disputed relating to the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction were resolved between us and Sprint, including, but not limited to, issues relating to costs allegedly incurred by Sprint to relocate users from the spectrum then licensed to DBSD North America and TerreStar.  Pursuant to the Sprint Settlement Agreement, we made a net payment of approximately $114 million to Sprint.  The total consideration to acquire these assets was approximately $2.860 billion.  This amount includes $1.364 billion for the DBSD Transaction, $1.382 billion for the TerreStar Transaction, and the net payment of $114 million to Sprint pursuant to the Sprint Settlement Agreement.
 
Our consolidated FCC applications for approval of the license transfers from DBSD North America and TerreStar were accompanied by requests for waiver of the FCC’s Mobile Satellite Service (“MSS”) “integrated service” and spare satellite requirements and various technical provisions.  The FCC denied our requests for waiver of the integrated service and spare satellite requirements but did not initially act on our request for waiver of the various technical provisions.  On March 21, 2012, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rule Making (“NPRM”) proposing the elimination of the integrated service, spare satellite and various technical requirements attached to the 2 GHz licenses.  On December 11, 2012, the FCC approved rules that eliminated these requirements and gave notice of its proposed modification of our 2 GHz authorizations to, among other things, allow us to offer single-mode terrestrial terminals to customers who do not desire satellite functionality.  On February 15, 2013, the FCC issued an order, which will become effective on March 7, 2013, modifying our 2 GHz licenses to add terrestrial operating authority.  The FCC’s order of modification has imposed certain limitations on the use of a portion of this spectrum, including interference protections for other spectrum users and power and emission limits that we presently believe could render 5 MHz of our uplink spectrum effectively unusable for terrestrial services and limit our ability to fully utilize the remaining 15 MHz of our uplink spectrum for terrestrial services.  These limitations could, among other things, impact the finalization of technical standards associated with our wireless business, and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize these licenses.  The new rules also mandate certain interim and final build-out requirements for the licenses.  By March 2017, we must provide terrestrial signal coverage and offer terrestrial service to at least 40% of the aggregate population represented by all of the areas covered by the licenses (the “2 GHz Interim Build-out Requirement”).  By March 2020, we must provide terrestrial signal coverage and offer terrestrial service to at least 70% of the population in each area covered by an individual license (the “2 GHz Final Build-out Requirement”).  If we fail to meet the 2 GHz Interim Build-out Requirement, the 2 GHz Final Build-out Requirement will be accelerated by one year, from March 2020 to March 2019.  If we fail to meet the 2 GHz Final Build-out Requirement, our terrestrial authorization for each license area in which we fail to meet the requirement will terminate.  In addition, the FCC is currently considering rules for a spectrum band that is adjacent to our 2 GHz licenses, known as the “H Block.”  If the FCC adopts rules for the H block that do not adequately protect our 2 GHz licenses, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize the 2 GHz licenses.
 
16

Table of Contents
 
As a result of the completion of the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction, we will likely be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others to, among other things, finance the commercialization and build-out requirements of these licenses and our integration efforts including compliance with regulations applicable to the acquired licenses.  Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization, build-out, and integration efforts, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly.  Additionally, recent consolidation in the wireless telecommunications industry, may, among other things, limit our available options, including our ability to partner with others.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these spectrum licenses or that we will be able to profitably deploy the assets represented by these spectrum licenses, which may affect the carrying value of these assets and our future financial condition or results of operations.
 
700 MHz Spectrum.  In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless spectrum licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009.  These licenses mandate certain interim and final build-out requirements.  By June 2013, we must provide signal coverage and offer service to at least 35% of the geographic area in each area covered by each individual license (the “700 MHz Interim Build-out Requirement”).  By the end of our license term (June 2019), we must provide signal coverage and offer service to at least 70% of the geographic area in each area covered by each individual license (the “700 MHz Final Build-out Requirement”).  We have recently notified the FCC of our plans to commence signal coverage in select cities within certain of these areas, but we have not yet developed plans for providing signal coverage and offering service in all of these areas.  If we fail to meet the 700 MHz Interim Build-out Requirement, the term of our licenses will be reduced, from June 2019 to June 2017, and we could face possible fines and the reduction of license area(s).  If we fail to meet the 700 MHz Final Build-out Requirement, our authorization for each license area in which we fail to meet the requirement will terminate.  To commercialize these licenses and satisfy the associated FCC build-out requirements, we will be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others.  Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization and build-out, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly.
 
MVDDS.  In 2010, we purchased all of South.com L.L.C., which is an entity that holds MVDDS licenses in 37 markets in the United States.  In October 2012, we agreed to purchase additional MVDDS licenses in 45 markets from an affiliate of Cablevision Systems Corporation (“Cablevision”).  We have agreed to lease four of these licenses to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision.  We now have MVDDS licenses in 82 out of 214 geographical license areas, including Los Angeles, New York City, Chicago and several other major metropolitan areas.  By August 2014, we are required to meet certain FCC build-out requirements related to our MVDDS licenses.  In addition, we are subject to certain FCC service rules applicable to these licenses.  Part or all of our MVDDS licenses may be terminated if these FCC build-out requirements are not satisfied.
 
17

Table of Contents
 
The International Telecommunication Union
 
Our satellite services also must conform to the International Telecommunication Union (“ITU”) service plans for Region 2 (which includes the United States).  If any of our operations are not consistent with this plan, the ITU will only provide authorization on a non-interference basis pending successful modification of the plan or the agreement of all affected administrations to the non-conforming operations.  Certain of our satellites are not presently entitled to any interference protection from other satellites that are in conformance with the plan.  Accordingly, unless and until the ITU modifies its service plans to include the technical parameters of our non-conforming operations, our non-conforming satellites, along with those of other non-conforming satellite operators, must not cause harmful electrical interference with other assignments that are in conformance with the ITU service plans.
 
Registration in the UN Registry of Space Objects
 
The United States and other jurisdictions in which we license satellites are parties to the UN Convention on the Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space.  The UN Convention requires a satellite’s launching state to register the satellite as a space object.  The act of registration carries liability for the registering country in the event that the satellite causes third party damage.  Administrations may place certain requirements on satellite licensees in order to procure the necessary launch or operational authorizations that accompany registration of the satellite.  In some jurisdictions, these authorizations are separate and distinct, with unique requirements, from the authorization to use a set of frequencies to provide satellite services.  There is no guarantee that we will be able to procure such authorizations even if we already possess a frequency authorization.
 
Export Control Regulation
 
The delivery of satellites and related technical information for purposes of launch by foreign launch service providers is subject to strict export control and prior approval requirements.  We are required to obtain import and export licenses from the United States government to receive and deliver certain components of direct-to-home satellite television systems.  In addition, the delivery of satellites and the supply of certain related ground control equipment, technical services and data, and satellite communication/control services to destinations outside the United States are subject to export control and prior approval requirements from the United States government (including prohibitions on the sharing of certain satellite-related goods and services with China).
 
PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
 
Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services that we offer or that we may offer in the future.  In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products or services infringe intellectual property rights held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property rights at a material cost, or to redesign those products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing any patent claims.  If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to obtain the intellectual property rights at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position.
 
We may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our products or services may potentially infringe.  In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the Patent and Trademark Office either publishes the application or issues a patent (whichever arises first) and, accordingly, our products may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications of which we are not aware.  Further, the process of determining definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid often involves expensive and protracted litigation, even if we are ultimately successful on the merits.
 
We cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses or the availability and cost of any such licenses.  Those costs, and their impact on our results of operations, could be material.  Damages in patent infringement cases can be substantial, and in certain circumstances can be trebled.  To the extent that we are required to pay unanticipated royalties to third parties, these increased costs of doing business could negatively affect our liquidity and operating results.  We are currently defending multiple patent infringement actions.  We cannot be certain the courts will conclude these companies do not own the rights they claim, that our products do not infringe on these rights and/or that these rights are not valid.  Further, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain licenses from these persons on commercially reasonable terms or, if we were unable to obtain such licenses, that we would be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
 
We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations.  These include laws regulating air emissions, water discharge and waste management.  We attempt to maintain compliance with all such requirements.  We do not expect capital or other expenditures for environmental compliance to be material in 2013 or 2014.  Environmental requirements are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time.  Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that these requirements will not change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse
 
18

Table of Contents
 
effect on our business.
 
SEGMENT REPORTING DATA AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA
 
For segment reporting data and principal geographic area data for 2012, 2011 and 2010, see Note 17 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
We had approximately 35,000 employees at December 31, 2012, of which approximately 26,500 employees are located in the United States.  We generally consider relations with our employees to be good.  Approximately 60 employees in three of our field offices have voted to have a union represent them in contract negotiations.  While we are not currently a party to any collective bargaining agreements, we are currently negotiating collective bargaining agreements at these offices.
 
WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION
 
We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and accordingly file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.  The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room.  As an electronic filer, our public filings are also maintained on the SEC’s Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov.
 
WEBSITE ACCESS
 
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act also may be accessed free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC.  The address of that website is http://www.dish.com.
 
We have adopted a written code of ethics that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the SEC promulgated thereunder.  Our code of ethics is available on our corporate website at http://www.dish.com.  In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers of, the provisions of this code of ethics that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events on our website.
 
19

Table of Contents
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
(furnished in accordance with Item 401 (b) of Regulation S-K, pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K)
 
The following table and information below sets forth the name, age and position with DISH Network of each of our executive officers, the period during which each executive officer has served as such, and each executive officer’s business experience during the past five years:
 

 
Charles W. Ergen.  Mr. Ergen is our executive Chairman and has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of DISH Network since its formation and, during the past five years, has held executive officer and director positions with DISH Network and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Ergen also serves as executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board of Directors of EchoStar.  Mr. Ergen co-founded DISH Network with his spouse, Cantey Ergen, and James DeFranco, in 1980.
 
Joseph P. Clayton.  Mr. Clayton has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and has been a member of our Board of Directors since June 2011.  Mr. Clayton served as Chairman of Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. (Sirius) from November 2004 through July 2008 and served as Chief Executive Officer of Sirius from November 2001 through November 2004.  Prior to joining Sirius, Mr. Clayton served as President of Global Crossing North America, as President and Chief Executive Officer of Frontier Corporation and as Executive Vice President, Marketing and Sales - Americas and Asia, of Thomson S.A.  Mr. Clayton previously served on the Board of Directors of Transcend Services, Inc. from 2001 until April 2012 and on the Board of Directors of EchoStar from October 2008 until June 2011.
 
W. Erik Carlson.  Mr. Carlson has served as our Executive Vice President, DNS and Service Operations since February 2008 and is responsible for overseeing our residential and commercial installations, customer billing and equipment retrieval and refurbishment operations.  Mr. Carlson previously was Senior Vice President of Retail Services, a position he held since mid-2006.  He joined DISH Network in 1995 and has held operating roles of increasing responsibility over the years.
 
Thomas A. Cullen.  Mr. Cullen has served as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development since July 2011.  Mr. Cullen served as our Executive Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Programming from April 2009 until July 2011 and as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development from December 2006 until April 2009.  Before joining DISH Network, Mr. Cullen served as President of TensorComm, a venture-backed wireless technology company.  From August 2003 to April 2005, Mr. Cullen was with Charter Communications Inc., serving as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services and Business Development from August 2003 until he was promoted to Executive Vice President in August 2004.
 
James DeFranco.  Mr. DeFranco is one of our Executive Vice Presidents and has been one of our vice presidents and a member of the Board of Directors since our formation.  During the past five years he has held various executive officer and director positions with our subsidiaries.  Mr. DeFranco co-founded DISH Network with Charles W. Ergen and Cantey Ergen, in 1980.
 
R. Stanton Dodge.  Mr. Dodge has served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since June 2007 and is responsible for all legal and government affairs for DISH Network and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Dodge
 
20

Table of Contents
 
has served on the Board of Directors of EchoStar since March 2009.  Mr. Dodge also served as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from October 2007 to November 2011 pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and EchoStar.  Since joining DISH Network in November 1996, he has held various positions of increasing responsibility in DISH Network’s legal department.
 
Bernard L. Han.  Mr. Han has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2009 and is in charge of all operations and information technology functions for DISH Network.  Mr. Han served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DISH Network from September 2006 until April 2009.  Mr. Han also served as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2008 to June 2010 pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and EchoStar.  From October 2002 to May 2005, Mr. Han served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Northwest Airlines, Inc.
 
Michael Kelly.  Mr. Kelly has served as the President of Blockbuster L.L.C since May 2011.  Mr. Kelly served as our Executive Vice President, Direct, Commercial and Advertising Sales from December 2005 until May 2011 and as Executive Vice President of DISH Network Service L.L.C. and Customer Service from February 2004 until December 2005.
 
Roger J. Lynch.  Mr. Lynch has served as our Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies since November 2009.  Mr. Lynch also serves as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies.  In addition, in July 2012, Mr. Lynch was named Chief Executive Officer of DISH Digital Holding L.L.C., an entity which is owned two-thirds by us and one-third by EchoStar (“DISH Digital”).  Prior to joining DISH Network, Mr. Lynch served as Chairman and CEO of Video Networks International, Ltd., an internet protocol television (“IPTV”) technology company in the United Kingdom from 2002 until 2009.
 
Robert E. Olson.  Mr. Olson has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2009.  Mr. Olson was the Chief Financial Officer of Trane Commercial Systems, the largest operating division of American Standard, from April 2006 to August 2008.  From April 2003 to January 2006, Mr. Olson served as the Chief Financial Officer of AT&T’s Consumer Services division and later its Business Services division.
 
There are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any executive officer was selected as such.  Pursuant to the Bylaws of DISH Network, executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
