
General 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Walmart,” the “Company” or “we”) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices (“EDLP”) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price everyday so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. Our consolidated financial statements are based on a fiscal year ending on January 31 for our United States (“U.S.”) and Canadian operations and December 31 for all other operations. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012, we generated net sales of approximately $443.9 billion. 
Currently, our operations comprise three reportable business segments: the Walmart U.S. segment; the Walmart International segment; and the Sam’s Club segment. 
Our Walmart U.S. segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for approximately 60% of our fiscal 2012 net sales and operates retail stores in various formats in all 50 states in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, as well as Walmart’s online retail operations, walmart.com. 
Our Walmart International segment consists of retail operations in 26 countries. This segment generated approximately 28% of our fiscal 2012 net sales. The Walmart International segment includes numerous formats of retail stores, restaurants, Sam’s Clubs and online retail operations that operate outside the U.S. 
Our Sam’s Club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs operated in 47 states in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, as well as the segment’s online retail operations, samsclub.com. Sam’s Club accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal 2012 net sales. 
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA. 
The Development of Our Company 
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’ business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three Sam’s Clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market. 
In fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with Cifra S.A. de C.V. (“Cifra”). In 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand. At January 31, 2012, our Walmart International segment conducted retail business in 26 countries. 
Our Business Segments 
The Company is engaged in the operation of: retail stores located throughout the United States; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan and the United Kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in Chile, Mexico, 12 countries in Africa, and 5 countries in Central America; and its joint ventures in India and China and other controlled subsidiaries in China. The Company defines its segments as those business units whose operating results the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. 
The Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company’s mass merchant concept under the “Walmart” or “Wal-Mart” brand, as well as walmart.com. The Walmart International segment consists of the Company’s operations outside of the U.S. The Sam’s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the U.S., as well as samsclub.com. 
The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment’s operating income, which we calculate by including certain corporate overhead allocations. From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment’s operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM. When we do so, the prior period amounts for segment operating income are reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation. 
 
4 

Walmart U.S. Segment 
The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of $264.2 billion, $260.3 billion and $259.9 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter, discount store, Neighborhood Market or other small store format location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales. 
General. As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states and Puerto Rico, with supercenters in 48 states and Puerto Rico, discount stores in 45 states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats in 18 states and Puerto Rico. Supercenters range in size from 78,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 182,000 square feet. Our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 106,000 square feet. Neighborhood Markets and other small formats range in size from 3,000 square feet to 64,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 38,000 square feet. From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. Customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com. 
WALMART U.S. SEGMENT 
UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET (1) 
 

 



Merchandise. Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats. The percentage of net sales calculated below reflects sales of our brick and mortar stores, as well as sales of our online business. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
5 

The Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and related products, including money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment. These services total less than 1% of annual sales. 
Nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the Walmart U.S. segment. We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including: “Canopy,” “Equate,” “Everstart,” “Faded Glory,” “George,” “Great Value,” “Hometrends,” “Mainstays,” “Marketside,” “No Boundaries,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Ozark Trail,” “Parent’s Choice,” “Prima Della,” “Puritan,” “Spring Valley” and “White Stag.” The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: “Better Homes & Gardens,” “Danskin Now,” “Disney,” “General Electric,” “Just My Size,” “OP,” “Rival” and “Starter.” 
The percentage of net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows during the fiscal years ended: 
 

Periodically, we make revisions to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. When revisions are made, we also adjust the previous period’s presentation to maintain comparability. 
Operations. Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, electronic benefits transfer cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through PayPal. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers’ health benefit plans. 
Seasonal Aspects of Operations. The Walmart U.S. segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climatic conditions. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur during the fiscal quarter ending April 30. 
Competition. The Walmart U.S. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. We also compete with other retailers for new store sites. 
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following: 
 

 

 

 

 

 
6 

We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. 
Distribution. During fiscal 2012, approximately 80% of the Walmart U.S. segment’s purchases of merchandise were shipped to the stores through our distribution centers, which are located strategically throughout the United States. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise. 
Our Walmart U.S. segment operations are supported by 133 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2012, located strategically throughout the U.S. Of these 133 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 105. We owned and a third party operated one distribution facility and third parties owned and operated the remaining 27 distribution facilities. In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for certain items. 
Walmart International Segment 
The Walmart International segment’s net sales for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, were $125.9 billion, $109.2 billion and $97.4 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales. 
General. Our Walmart International segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Chile, Mexico, 12 countries in Africa and 5 countries in Central America; our joint ventures in China and India and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. Walmart International operates units under approximately 70 banners in numerous formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, websites, warehouse clubs, restaurants, and apparel stores. Also, on a limited basis, our Walmart International segment operates banks that provide consumer lending. 
WALMART INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT 
UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET (1) 
 

 

 


 
7 

Walmart International has a diverse portfolio with approximately 70 banners, represented in three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. Generally, retail centers range in size from 8,900 square feet to 110,000 square feet. Our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet. Other, including restaurants in Chile, Japan and Mexico, range in size from under 1,000 square feet to 4,200 square feet. Unit counts(1) for Walmart International are as follows: 
 

 



Merchandise. The merchandising strategy for the Walmart International segment is similar to that of our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the U.S. stores and clubs have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the Walmart International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise. 
Operations. The hours of operation for operating units in the Walmart International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers, and in Canada, Chile and Mexico, credit cards issued by our subsidiaries. Limited consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. Across the Walmart International segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices. 
Seasonal Aspects of Operations. The Walmart International segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Historically, the segment’s highest sales volume and operating income occur in our fiscal quarter ending January 31 and the segment’s lowest sales volume and operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending April 30. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions. 
Competition. The Walmart International segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. We also operate restaurant chains and consumer finance operations. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which Walmart International operates. EDLP is the right business model for our customers and for all of our markets, including high-growth or emerging markets. We are in the midst of a multi-year plan to transition all of our markets to EDLP. Our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets where we operate. 
 
8 

Distribution. We utilize a total of 158 distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom, including one export consolidation facility in the United States. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment. During fiscal 2012, approximately 75% of the Walmart International segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the balance of the Walmart International segment’s purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. Of these 158 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 39, we owned and third parties operated 9 and we leased and operated 68. Third parties leased and operated the remaining 42 distribution facilities. 
Sam’s Club Segment 
The Sam’s Club segment had net sales of $53.8 billion, $49.5 billion and $47.8 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales. 
General. As a membership club warehouse, facility sizes for Sam’s Clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. Sam’s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com. 
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT 
CLUB COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET (1)
 

 

Merchandise. Sam’s Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items such as “Member’s Mark” and three new proprietary brands, “Artisan Fresh,” “Daily Chef” and “Simply Right,” in five merchandise categories, listed below, within the warehouse club format. 
 

 

 

 

 

 
9 

The percentage of net sales for the Sam’s Club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows during the fiscal years ended:
 

Operations. Operating hours for Sam’s Clubs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits Business Members and Plus Members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. 
Sam’s Clubs are membership only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including cash, check, debit cards, certain types of credit cards and private label and co-branded Discover credit cards, issued by a third-party provider. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our members’ health benefit plans. 
Members include both business owners and individual consumers. Individual consumers are referred to as Advantage Members. The annual membership fee for an individual Advantage Member is $40 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee for Business Members is $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, Business Members can add up to 8 business associates to their business account for $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) each. Sam’s Club Plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both Business and Advantage Members. The annual fee for a Plus Member (Business or Advantage) is $100 (plus taxes, if applicable). In addition, Business Plus Members can add up to 16 business associates to their business membership for $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) each. 
Seasonal Aspects of Operations. The Sam’s Club segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climatic conditions. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur during the fiscal quarter ending April 30. 
Competition. Sam’s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Sam’s Club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise and food to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry. 
Distribution. During fiscal 2012, approximately 63% of the Sam’s Club segment’s non-fuel purchases were shipped from the Sam’s Club segment’s dedicated distribution facilities and from some of the Walmart U.S. segment’s distribution centers. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam’s Club segment’s purchases directly to Sam’s Club locations. As of January 31, 2012, our Sam’s Club segment operations were supported by 25 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 25 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 8. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 17 distribution facilities. 
The principal focus of our Sam’s Club’s distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, sometimes less than an hour. 
Sam’s Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. 
 
10 

Other Segment Information 
Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012 (“Annual Report to Shareholders”) under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 15 in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Note 15 includes information regarding our segment and total company net sales, as well as long-lived assets in the United States. Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Employees 
As of the end of fiscal 2012, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.2 million employees (“associates”) worldwide, with approximately 1.4 million associates in the United States and 0.8 million associates internationally. Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and experiences significant turnover in associates each year. 
Through fiscal 2011, the Company maintained separate profit sharing and 401(k) plans for associates in the United States and Puerto Rico, under which associates generally became participants following one year of employment. The profit sharing component was entirely funded by the Company, and the Company also made additional contributions to the 401(k) component of the plan. In addition to the Company’s contributions, associates could elect to contribute a percentage of their earnings to the 401(k) component of the plan. 
Effective February 1, 2011, the Company terminated the previous profit sharing and 401(k) plans and offered new safe harbor 401(k) plans for associates in the United States and Puerto Rico, under which associates generally become participants following one year of employment. Under the safe harbor 401(k) plans, the Company matches 100% of participant contributions up to 6% of annual eligible earnings. The matching contributions immediately vest at 100% for each associate. Participants can contribute up to 50% of their pretax earnings, but not more than the statutory limits. Participants age 50 or older may defer additional earnings in catch-up contributions up to the maximum statutory limits. 
Contribution expense associated with these plans was $752 million in fiscal 2012 and $1.1 billion in fiscal 2011 and 2010. 
In addition, in the U.S., the Company offers a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or Sam’s Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases through the Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance. The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. The Company’s medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. 
In our operations outside the U.S., the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. 
 
11 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 
The following chart names each of the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
 

 
12 

Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information 
Our corporate website is located at www.walmartstores.com. We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com/investors. These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices. 
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart’s Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. 
