ITEM  1.    BUSINESS 
INTRODUCTION 
Overview 
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company whose mission is to help people live healthier lives and help make health care work better (the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “UnitedHealth Group,” or the “Company” used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and our subsidiaries). 
We are helping individuals access quality care at an affordable cost; simplifying health care administration and delivery; strengthening the physician/patient relationship; promoting evidence-based care; and empowering physicians, health care professionals, consumers, employers and other participants in the health system with actionable data to make better, more informed decisions. 
Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in advanced, enabling technology; health care data, information and intelligence; and clinical care management and coordination to help meet the demands of the health system. These core competencies are deployed within our two distinct, but strategically aligned, business platforms: health benefits operating under UnitedHealthcare and health services operating under Optum. 
UnitedHealthcare provides network-based health care benefits for a full spectrum of customers in the health benefits market. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, as well as students and other individuals, and will serve TRICARE West Region members beginning April 1, 2013. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement delivers health and well-being benefits for Medicare beneficiaries and retirees. UnitedHealthcare Community & State manages health care benefit programs on behalf of state Medicaid and community programs and their participants. UnitedHealthcare International includes Amil Participações S.A (Amil), a health care company providing health benefits and hospital and clinical services to individuals in Brazil, and other diversified global health businesses.
Optum is a health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including payers, care providers, employers, government, life sciences companies and consumers, through its OptumHealth, OptumInsight and OptumRx businesses. These businesses have dedicated units that drive improved delivery, quality and cost effectiveness across eight business markets: integrated care delivery, care management, consumer engagement and support, distribution of benefits and services, health financial services, operational services and support, health care information technology and pharmacy.
Through UnitedHealthcare and Optum, in 2012, we managed nearly $150 billion in aggregate health care spending on behalf of the constituents and consumers we served. Our revenues are derived from premiums on risk-based products; fees from management, administrative, technology and consulting services; sales of a wide variety of products and services related to the broad health and well-being industry; and investment and other income. Our two business platforms have four reportable segments: 




For our financial results and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment, see Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements.” 
UnitedHealthcare 
UnitedHealthcare is advancing strategies to improve the way health care is delivered and financed, offering consumers a simpler, more affordable health care experience. Our market position is built on:






1

Table of Contents





The financial results of UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community & State and UnitedHealthcare International have been aggregated in the UnitedHealthcare reportable segment due to their similar economic characteristics, products and services, customers, distribution methods, operational processes and regulatory environment. The domestic businesses also share significant common assets, including our contracted networks of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities, information technology infrastructure and other resources. UnitedHealthcare utilizes the expertise of UnitedHealth Group affiliates for capabilities in specialized areas, such as OptumRx pharmacy benefit products and services, certain OptumHealth product offerings and care management and integrated care delivery services and OptumInsight health information and technology solutions, consulting and other services. UnitedHealthcare arranges for discounted access to care through networks that include a total of nearly 780,000 physicians and other health care professionals and approximately 5,900 hospitals and other facilities across the United States (UnitedHealthcare Network). 
UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual 
UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual works closely with employers and individuals to provide health benefit plans that provide solutions to help members live healthier lives and achieve meaningful cost savings. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses and individuals nationwide, providing nearly 27 million Americans access to health care as of December 31, 2012. 
Through its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs for its customers in return for a monthly premium, which is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period. When providing administrative and other management services to customers that elect to self-fund the health care costs of their employees and employees’ dependants, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual receives a fixed service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and employees’ dependants, while UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provides customized services such as coordination and facilitation of medical and related services to customers, consumers and health care professionals, transaction processing and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals, including dental and vision. Large employer groups, such as those serviced by UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual National Accounts, typically use self-funded arrangements. As of December 31, 2012, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual National Accounts served 395 large employer groups under these arrangements, including 147 of the Fortune 500 companies. Smaller employer groups are more likely to purchase risk-based products because they are less willing or able to bear a greater potential liability for health care expenditures. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual also offers a variety of non-employer based insurance options for purchase by individuals, including students, which are designed to meet the health coverage needs of these consumers and their families.
As the commercial market becomes more consumer-oriented, individuals are assuming more personal and financial responsibility for their care, and they are demanding more affordable products, greater transparency and choice and personalized help navigating the complex system. The consolidated purchasing capacity represented by the individuals UnitedHealth Group serves makes it possible for UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual to contract for cost-effective access to a large number of conveniently located care professionals. Individuals served by UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual have access to 91% of the physicians and other health care professionals and 95% of the hospitals in the broad UnitedHealthcare Network; certain care providers are available only to those consumers served through Medicare and/or Medicaid products. 
UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual is engaging physicians and consumers and using information to promote well-informed health decisions, improved medical outcomes and greater efficiency. It offers consumers engaging and informative tools and resources that provide greater transparency around quality and cost, such as the Premium Designation® program and Health4Me for Apple® and Android® phones, myHealthcareCost Estimator, Health Care Lane and myuhc.com. These easy-to-use resources support better consumer decisions, affording members more control over their health care. 
UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s distribution system consists primarily of producers (i.e., brokers and agents) and direct and internet sales in the individual market, producers in the small employer group market, and consultant-based or direct sales for larger employer and public sector segments. In recent years, the distribution model has been diversified to include professional employer organizations, associations, and private equity partners. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers its products through affiliates that are licensed as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), or third party administrators (TPAs).

2

Table of Contents


UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s diverse product portfolio offers a continuum of benefit designs, price points and approaches to consumer engagement, and allows the flexibility to meet the needs of employers of all sizes as well as individuals shopping for health benefits coverage. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual emphasizes local markets and leverages its national scale to adapt products quickly to meet specific market needs. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s major product families include:
Traditional Products. Traditional products include a full range of medical benefits and network options from managed plans such as Choice and Options PPO to more traditional indemnity offerings. The plans offer a full spectrum of covered services, including preventive care, direct access to specialists and catastrophic protection.
Consumer Engagement Products and Tools. Consumer engagement products couple plan design with financial accounts to increase employee ownership of their health and well-being. This suite of products includes high-deductible consumer-driven benefit plans, which include health reimbursement accounts (HRAs), health savings accounts (HSAs) and consumer activation services such as personalized multi-channel activation messaging, behavioral incentive programs and consumer education information. During 2012, nearly 42,000 employer-sponsored benefit plans, including more than 200 employers in the large group self-funded market, purchased an HRA or HSA product. The consumer engagement tools provide members with online and/or mobile access to benefit, cost and quality information.
Value-Based Products. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s suite of consumer incentive products increases individual awareness for heightened consumer responsibility and behavior change across diverse client segments and funding relationships. Examples include: Small Business Wellness, which is a packaged wellness and incentives product offering gym reimbursement and encouraging completion of important wellness activities. For mid-sized clients, SimplyEngaged is a scalable activity-based reward program that ties incentives to completion of health improvement activities, while SimplyEngaged Plus provides richer incentives for achieving health outcome goals. For large, self-funded customers, UnitedHealthcare Health Rewards program offers a flexible incentive design for employers to choose the right activities and biometric outcomes that best fit the needs of their population. Additionally, UnitedHealth Personal Rewards leverages a tailored approach to incentives by combining personalized scorecards with financial incentives for improving biometric scores, compliance with key health treatments and preventive care.
Essential Benefits Products. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s portfolio of affordable products drives value to consumers with lower-cost products, innovative designs and unique network programs that guide people to physicians recognized for providing quality and cost efficient care to their patients. These approaches are designed to deliver sustainable health care costs, enabling employers to continue to offer their employees coverage at more affordable prices. Products such as Catalyst, Edge, Premium Tiered Benefit Plan, Navigate and CORE offer solutions for employers looking to achieve more affordable costs through tiered benefit plans that enhance benefits in the form of greater coinsurance coverage and/or lower copays for using UnitedHealth Premium designated providers.
Clinical and Pharmacy Products. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers a comprehensive suite of clinical and pharmacy benefit management programs. The clinical and pharmacy benefit products complement the service offering by improving quality of care, engaging members and providing cost-saving options. 
All UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual members are provided access to clinical products with the goal of helping them make better health care decisions, and thus better use of their medical benefits, with the ultimate goal of improving health and decreasing medical expenses. Each medical plan has a core set of clinical programs embedded in the offering, with additional services available depending on funding type (fully insured and self-funded), line of business (Individual, Small Business, Key Accounts, Public Sector, and National Accounts), and clinical need. The spectrum of clinical programs offered to all consumers, regardless of their health goals – staying healthy, getting healthy, living with a chronic condition includes: wellness, decision support, utilization management, case and disease management, and complex condition management, workplace on-site programs, including Know Your Numbers (biometrics) and flu shots, incentives to reinforce positive behavior change, mental health, substance use disorder management, employer assistance programs and well-being programs. The programs promote consumer engagement, health education, admission counseling before hospital stays, care advocacy to help avoid prolonged patients’ stays in the hospital, support for individuals at risk of needing intensive treatment and coordination of care for people with chronic conditions. Disease and condition management programs help individuals address significant, complex disease states, including disease-specific benefit offerings such as the Diabetes Health Plan.
UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s comprehensive and integrated pharmaceutical management services promote lower costs by using formulary programs to drive better unit costs, encouraging consumers to use drugs that offer better value and outcomes, and through physician and consumer programs that support the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence. 

3

Table of Contents


Specialty Offerings. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual also offers a comprehensive range of dental, vision, life, and disability product offerings delivered through an integrated approach that enhances efficiency and effectiveness and includes a network of nearly 55,000 vision professionals in private and retail settings, and nearly 210,000 dental providers.
UnitedHealthcare Military & Veterans. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s Military & Veterans Services business unit has been awarded the Department of Defense’s (DoD) TRICARE Managed Care Support contract to provide health care services for active duty and retired military service members and their families in the West Region. UnitedHealthcare Military & Veterans Services will be the Managed Care Support contractor serving more than 2.7 million TRICARE beneficiaries in 21 states. The contract includes a transition period and five one-year renewals at the government’s option for health care operations. The first year of operations is anticipated to begin April 1, 2013.
UnitedHealthcare Military & Veterans’ responsibility as a contractor is to augment the military’s direct care system by providing managed care support services, provider networks, medical management, claims/enrollment administration, and customer services. In partnership with government health programs, UnitedHealthcare Military & Veterans’ mission is to improve the health and well-being of both those who currently serve in the military and have served in the military in the past, as well as their families, by providing innovative, high-quality and affordable health care solutions.
UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement 
UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health and well-being services to individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services as well as for services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues for older individuals. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement is fully dedicated to serving this growing senior market segment, providing products and services in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and most U.S. territories and has distinct pricing, underwriting, clinical program management and marketing capabilities dedicated to risk-based health products and services in this market. 
UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers a wide spectrum of Medicare products which may be sold to individuals or on a group basis, including Medicare Advantage plans, Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage and Medicare Supplement/Medigap products that supplement traditional fee-for-service coverage. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement services include care management and clinical management programs, a nurse health line service, 24-hour access to health care information, access to discounted health services from a network of care providers and administrative services.
Premium revenues from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) represented 29% of UnitedHealth Group’s total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement under a number of contracts. 
UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement has extensive distribution capabilities and experience, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients: AARP, the nation’s largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over; state and U.S. government agencies; and employer groups. Products are also offered through employer groups to retirees. 
UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement’s major product categories include:
Medicare Advantage. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries primarily through the Medicare Advantage program administered by CMS, including Medicare Advantage HMO plans, preferred provider organization (PPO) plans, Point-of-Service (POS) plans, Private-Fee-for-Service plans and Special Needs Plans (SNPs). Under the Medicare Advantage program, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health insurance coverage in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS. Premium amounts vary based on the geographic areas in which members reside; demographic factors such as age, gender, and institutionalized status; and the health status of the individual. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement had approximately 2.6 million members enrolled in its Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2012.
UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers innovative care management and clinical programs, integrating federal, state and personal funding through its continuum of Medicare Advantage products. For high-risk patients in certain care settings and programs, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement uses proprietary, automated medical record software that enables clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a comprehensive set of care information that bridges across home, hospital and nursing home care settings. Proprietary predictive modeling tools help identify members at high risk and allow care managers to proactively outreach to members to create individualized care plans and help members obtain the right care, in the right place, at the right time. 
Prescription Drug Benefit (Part D). UnitedHealthcare provides Medicare prescription drug benefits (Part D) to beneficiaries throughout the United States and its territories through its Medicare Advantage and stand-alone Part D plans. The portfolio of stand-alone Part D plans addresses a large spectrum of beneficiaries’ needs and preferences for their prescription drug coverage, including low cost prescription options. As of December 31, 2012, UnitedHealthcare had enrolled 6.8 million 

4

Table of Contents


members in the Part D program, including 4.2 million members in the stand-alone Part D plans and 2.6 million members in its Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Part D coverage. 
Medicare Supplement. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement is currently serving approximately 4 million seniors through various Medicare Supplement products in association with AARP. We offer plans in all 50 states and most U.S. territories. These products cover varying levels of coinsurance and deductible gaps that seniors are exposed to in the traditional Medicare program. 
UnitedHealthcare Community & State 
UnitedHealthcare Community & State is dedicated to providing diversified solutions to states’ programs that care for the economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefit of employer-funded health care coverage in exchange for a monthly premium per member from the applicable state. UnitedHealthcare Community & State’s primary customers oversee Medicaid plans, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and other federal, state and community health care programs. States using managed care services for Medicaid beneficiaries select health plans using either a formal bid process, or award individual contracts. As of December 31, 2012, UnitedHealthcare Community & State participates in programs in 25 states and the District of Columbia, serving approximately 3.8 million beneficiaries. UnitedHealthcare Community & State serves populations that range in size from 9,000 people to more than 600,000 people. For those states or counties that choose not to enter into risk arrangements, UnitedHealthcare Community & State offers a variety of management services that leverage its infrastructure and experience, as well as the considerable health care system assets of UnitedHealth Group.
The primary categories of eligibility for the programs served by UnitedHealthcare Community & State include Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), CHIP, Aged Blind and Disabled, SNPs, Long-Term Care, Childless Adults & Programs, Dual Medicare-Medicaid Eligible (dually eligible) beneficiaries and other federal and state health care programs (e.g., Developmentally Disabled, Rehabilitative Services). The health plans and care programs offered are designed to address the complex needs of the populations they serve, including the chronically ill, those with disabilities and people with higher risk medical, behavioral and social conditions. UnitedHealthcare Community & State leverages the national capabilities of UnitedHealth Group, delivering them at the local market level to support effective care management, regulatory partnerships, greater administrative efficiency, improved clinical outcomes and the ability to adapt to a changing market environment. UnitedHealthcare Community & State coordinates resources among family, physicians, other health care providers, and government and community-based agencies and organizations to facilitate continuous and effective care. For example, the Personal Care Model establishes an ongoing relationship between health care professionals and individuals who have serious and chronic health conditions to help them maintain the best possible health and functional status, whether care is delivered in an acute care setting, long-term care facility or at home. Programs for families and children focus on high-prevalence and debilitating chronic illnesses such as hypertension and cardiovascular disease, asthma, sickle cell disease, diabetes, HIV/AIDS and high-risk pregnancies. Programs for the long-term care population focus on dementia, depression, coronary disease and functional-use deficiencies that impede daily living.
Additionally, there are more than nine million dually eligible beneficiaries who typically have complex conditions with costs of care that are far higher than a typical Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary. While these individuals’ health needs are more complex and more costly, they have historically been in unmanaged environments. As of December 31, 2012, UnitedHealthcare serves more than 250,000 members in legacy dually eligible programs through Medicare Advantage and SNPs. In 2013, UnitedHealthcare Community & State will help implement Ohio’s Integrated Medicare-Medicaid Eligible (MME) program, one of the first in the country under the new CMS design.
UnitedHealthcare International 
UnitedHealthcare International provides solutions for consumers of domestic or cross-border health care management, insurance, and administration services; regardless of their geographic location, language or cultural origins. UnitedHealthcare International’s goal is to create business solutions that are based on local infrastructure, culture and needs, and that blend local expertise with experiences from the U.S. health care industry. 
Amil. In 2012, UnitedHealthcare International acquired Amil, which provides health and dental benefits to over five million people and also operates 22 acute hospitals, as well as specialty clinics, primary care, and emergency services across Brazil, principally for the benefit of its members. Amil’s patients are also treated in its contracted provider network of 45,000 physicians and other health care professionals, 3,300 hospitals and 12,000 laboratories and diagnostic imaging centers. Amil offers a diversified product portfolio with a wide range of product offerings, benefit designs, price points and values, including indemnity products. Amil’s products include various administrative services such as network access and administration, care management and personal health services and claims processing.

5

Table of Contents


Other Operations. UnitedHealthcare International also includes other diversified global health services business with a variety of offerings for international customers, including:






See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements” for additional information related to the revenues and long-lived assets of the UnitedHealthcare International operations. 
Optum
Optum is a health services business serving the broad health care marketplace including:




Using advanced data, analytics and technology, Optum helps improve overall health system performance: optimizing care quality, reducing costs and improving the consumer experience and care provider performance. Optum is organized in three segments: 



OptumHealth 
OptumHealth is a diversified health and wellness business serving the physical, emotional and financial needs of more than 61 million unique individuals and enabling consumer health management and integrated care delivery through programs offered by employers, payers, government entities and, increasingly, directly through the care delivery system. OptumHealth’s products and services can be deployed individually or integrated to provide comprehensive solutions, addressing a broad base of needs within the health care system. OptumHealth’s solutions reduce costs for customers, improve workforce productivity and consumer satisfaction and optimize the overall health and well-being of populations.
OptumHealth offers its products on a risk basis, where it assumes responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per individual served, and on an administrative fee basis whereby it manages or administers delivery of the products or services in exchange for a fixed fee per individual served. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds.
OptumHealth sells its products primarily through its direct sales force, strategic collaborations and external producers in three markets: employers (which includes the sub-markets of large, mid and small employers), payers (which includes the sub-markets of health plans, TPAs, underwriter/stop-loss carriers and individual market intermediaries) and government entities (which includes states, CMS, DoD, Veterans Administration and other federal procurement). As provider reimbursement models evolve, care providers are emerging as a fourth market for the health management, financial services and integrated care delivery businesses.
OptumHealth is organized into three major operating groups: Care Management, Integrated Care Delivery and Consumer Solutions.

6

Table of Contents


Care Management. Care Management includes Specialty Networks and Health Management Solutions.


Integrated Care Delivery. Integrated Care Delivery is defined by the types of care delivery support services provided within OptumHealth’s two businesses: Collaborative Care and Logistics Health, Inc. (LHI). Collaborative Care is driven by the recognition that the market is moving to a collaborative network aligned around the concept of total population health management and outcomes based reimbursement. Collaborative Care’s local care delivery systems deploy a core set of technology, risk management, analytical and clinical capabilities and tools to assist physicians in delivering high-quality care across the populations they serve. Collaborative Care’s complex population management services augment primary care physicians to deliver services outside of hospitals to vulnerable, chronically ill populations. Collaborative Care also delivers care to approximately 1 million people through a spectrum of models ranging from medical clinics to contracts with individual practice association networks. LHI designs and implements mobile care delivery solutions, providing occupational health, medical and dental readiness services, treatments and immunization programs for the U.S. military and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), as well as for many commercial companies. 
Consumer Solutions. Consumer Solutions includes consumer and marketing capabilities, such as distribution and financial services. 


OptumInsight 
OptumInsight is a health care information, technology, operational services and consulting company providing software and information products, advisory consulting services, and business process outsourcing services and support to participants in the health care industry. Hospitals, physicians, commercial health plans, government agencies, life sciences companies and other organizations that comprise the health care system work with OptumInsight to reduce costs, meet compliance mandates, improve clinical performance and adapt to the changing health system landscape. As of December 31, 2012, OptumInsight’s products and services are used by four out of five hospitals, tens of thousands of physician practices and other health care facilities, approximately 300 health plans, nearly 400 global life sciences companies, and many government agencies, as well as other UnitedHealth Group businesses. 

7

Table of Contents


Many of OptumInsight’s software and information products, advisory consulting arrangements, and outsourcing contracts are performed over an extended period, often several years. OptumInsight maintains an order backlog to track unearned revenues under these long-term arrangements. The backlog consists of estimated revenue from signed contracts, other legally binding agreements and anticipated contract renewals based on historical experience that either have not started but are anticipated to begin in the near future, or are in process and have not been completed. OptumInsight’s aggregate backlog at December 31, 2012 was $4.6 billion, of which $2.7 billion is expected to be realized within the next 12 months. This includes $1.0 billion related to intersegment agreements, all of which are included in the current portion of the backlog. OptumInsight cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to realize all of the revenues included in backlog due to uncertainty regarding the timing and scope of services, the potential for cancellation, non-renewal, or early termination of service arrangements. OptumInsight’s aggregate backlog at December 31, 2011 was $4.0 billion.



 
OptumInsight’s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force. OptumInsight’s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliance and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and interface its products with their applications.
OptumInsight’s technology products and services solutions are offered through four integrated market groups. These market groups are care providers (e.g., physician practices and hospitals), commercial payers, governments and life sciences. 
Care Providers. The Provider Solutions businesses combine a comprehensive range of technology and information products, advisory consulting, and outsourcing services focused on hospitals, integrated delivery networks, and physician practices. These solutions help drive financial performance, meet compliance requirements and deliver health intelligence and are organized around hospital and physician practice needs for:




Commercial Payers. OptumInsight’s Payer Solutions group serves clients that offer commercial health insurance or privately administer health insurance programs on behalf of federal or state governments (e.g., Medicare Advantage or Managed Medicaid). The business offers technology, services and consulting capabilities that supplement OptumInsight’s clients’ existing operations, as well as fully outsourced solutions. The business addresses diverse needs for payer clients, serving four primary areas:  





8

Table of Contents


Governments. OptumInsight Government Solutions helps state and federal governments improve the efficiency and quality of health and human services programs by offering a broad range of solutions including: 



Life Sciences. OptumInsight’s Life Sciences business addresses the changing global economic and regulatory competitive landscape by assisting life sciences clients in identifying, analyzing and measuring the value of their products. Life Sciences provides expertise in using real-world evidence to support market access and positioning of products, to deliver strategic regulatory services, to provide insights into patient reported outcomes and to optimize and manage risk to Life Sciences’ clients. Products include:






OptumRx 
OptumRx provides a full range of pharmacy benefit management (PBM) services to more than 14 million people nationwide, processing over 350 million adjusted retail, mail and specialty drug prescriptions and managing more than $25 billion in pharmaceutical spending annually. Its PBM services include benefit plan design and consultation, claims processing, manufacturer rebate contracting and administration, retail pharmacy network management services, mail order and specialty pharmacy services, Medicare Part D services, and a variety of clinical services, such as formulary management and compliance, drug utilization review and disease and drug therapy management services. The mail order and specialty pharmacy fulfillment capabilities of OptumRx are an important strategic component of its business, providing patients with convenient access to maintenance medications, offering a broad range of complex drug therapies and patient management services for individuals with chronic health conditions, and enabling OptumRx to manage its clients’ drug costs through operating efficiencies and economies of scale.  
OptumRx provides PBM services to nearly all members enrolled in the benefit plans that offer pharmacy benefits of UnitedHealthcare’s Medicare & Retirement and Community & State businesses and also serves a portion of UnitedHealthcare’s Employer & Individual’s commercial members. In 2013, OptumRx will in-source approximately 12 million of UnitedHealthcare’s commercial members who currently receive PBM services from Express Scripts’ subsidiary, Medco Health Solutions, Inc. OptumRx also provides PBM services to non-affiliated external clients, including public and private sector employer groups, insurance companies, Taft-Hartley Trust Funds, TPAs, managed care organizations, Medicare-contracted plans, Medicaid plans and other sponsors of health benefit plans and individuals throughout the U.S. OptumRx’s distribution system consists primarily of health insurance brokers and other health care consultants and direct sales.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION 
Most of our health and well-being services are regulated by U.S. federal and state as well as non-U.S. regulatory agencies that generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. These regulations can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and a reconciliation measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to together as the Health Reform Legislation, were signed into law in the first quarter of 2010 and, after being 

9

Table of Contents


challenged, were substantially upheld in a U.S. Supreme Court decision in the second quarter of 2012. The Health Reform Legislation, portions of which are summarized below, alters the regulatory environment in which we operate, in some cases to a significant degree. U.S. federal and state governments continue to enact and consider various legislative and regulatory proposals that could materially impact certain aspects of the health care system. New laws, regulations and rules, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and rules, as well as a result of changes in the political climate, could adversely affect our business. 
In the event we fail to comply with, or we fail to respond quickly and appropriately to changes in, applicable laws, regulations and rules, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with federal, state and international laws and regulations. 
Health Care Reforms 
The Health Reform Legislation expands access to coverage and modifies aspects of the commercial insurance market, as well as the Medicaid and Medicare programs, CHIP and other aspects of the health care system. Certain provisions of the Health Reform Legislation have already taken effect and other provisions become effective at various dates over the next several years. The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), HHS and the U.S. Treasury Department have issued or proposed regulations on a number of aspects of Health Reform Legislation, but final rules and interim guidance on other key aspects of the legislation remain pending. 
The following outlines certain provisions of the Health Reform Legislation that are currently effective, currently effective with phased implementation or are expected to take effect in the coming years.

Commercial fully insured health plans in the large employer group, small employer group and individual markets with medical loss ratios below certain targets (85% for large employer groups, 80% for small employer groups and 80% for individuals, as calculated under the definitions in the Health Reform Legislation and regulations, subject to state specific exceptions) are required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their customers annually. 
The Health Reform Legislation also mandated certain changes to coverage determination and appeals processes, including: expanding the definition of “adverse benefit determination” to include rescissions; extending external review rights of adverse benefit determinations to insured and self-funded plans; and improving the clarity of and expanding the types of information in adverse benefit determination notices. 

In addition, as required under the Health Reform Legislation, HHS established a federal premium rate review process, which generally applies to proposed rate increases equal to or exceeding 10%. The regulations further require commercial health plans to provide to the states and HHS extensive information supporting any rate increases subject to the new federal rate review process. The regulations clarify that HHS review will not supersede existing state review and approval processes, but plans deemed to have a history of “unreasonable” rate increases may be prohibited from participating in the state-based exchanges that are scheduled to become active under the Health Reform Legislation in 2014. Under current regulations, the HHS rate review process would apply only to health plans in the individual and small group markets.
 CMS reduced or froze benchmarks which affect our Medicare Advantage reimbursements from CMS between 2009 and 2011, and in 2012, additional cuts to Medicare Advantage benchmarks began to take effect (benchmarks will ultimately range from 95% of Medicare fee-for-service rates in high cost areas to 115% in low cost areas), with changes continuing to be phased-in over the next one to five years, depending on the level of benchmark reduction in a county. In addition to other measures, quality bonuses may partially offset these anticipated benchmark reductions. CMS quality rating 

10

Table of Contents


bonuses are paid to certain qualifying plans for a three year period that began in 2012. Quality bonuses are based upon STAR ratings at the local plan level, as determined by CMS, and are dependent on numerous factors, including member satisfaction and member behavior in the context of obtaining preventive screens.



The Health Reform Legislation and the related federal and state regulations will impact how we do business and could restrict revenue and enrollment growth in certain products and market segments, restrict premium growth rates for certain products and market segments, increase our medical and administrative costs, expose us to an increased risk of liability (including increasing our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations and contract interpretation) or put us at risk for loss of business. In addition, our results of operations, financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by such changes. The Health Reform Legislation may also create new or expand existing opportunities for business growth, but due to its complexity, the impact of the Health Reform Legislation remains difficult to predict and is not yet fully known. See also Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to the Health Reform Legislation and related matters. 

Other Federal Laws and Regulation 
We are subject to various levels of U.S. federal regulation. For example, when we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. CMS regulates our UnitedHealthcare businesses, and certain aspects of our Optum businesses. Our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community & State and OptumHealth businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to CMS (or state agencies) for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. CMS also has the right to audit performance to determine compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care given to Medicare beneficiaries. Beginning in 2014, our commercial business may be subject to audit related to the risk adjustment and reinsurance data. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements” and Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of audits by CMS.
Our UnitedHealthcare reportable segment, through UnitedHealthcare Community & State, also has Medicaid and CHIP contracts that are subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations surrounding Medicare and Medicaid compliance, and the regulatory environment with respect to these programs has become and will continue to become increasingly complex as a result of the Health Reform Legislation. In addition, our UnitedHealthcare Military & Veterans business and certain of Optum’s businesses hold contracts with federal agencies including the DoD and we are subject to federal law and regulations relating to the administration of these contracts. 

11

Table of Contents


Certain of UnitedHealthcare’s and Optum’s businesses, such as UnitedHealthcare’s eyeglass manufacturing activities and Optum’s high acuity clinical workflow software, hearing aid products, and clinical research activities, are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the clinical research activities are also subject to laws and regulations outside of the United States that regulate clinical trials. Laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, false claims, prohibited referrals, inappropriately reducing or limiting health care services, anti-money laundering, securities and antitrust also affect us. 
HIPAA, GLBA and Other Privacy and Security Regulation. The administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. HIPAA requires guaranteed health care coverage for small employers and certain eligible individuals. It also requires guaranteed renewability for employers and individuals and limits exclusions based on pre-existing conditions. Federal regulations related to HIPAA include minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets, and for the privacy and security of protected health information. The HIPAA privacy regulations do not preempt more stringent state laws and regulations that may also apply to us. 
Federal privacy and security requirements change frequently because of legislation, regulations and judicial or administrative interpretation. For example, the U.S. Congress enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), which significantly amends, and adds new privacy and security provisions to HIPAA and imposes additional requirements on uses and disclosures of health information. ARRA includes new contracting requirements for HIPAA business associate agreements; extends parts of HIPAA privacy and security provisions to business associates; adds new federal data breach notification requirements for covered entities and business associates and new reporting requirements to HHS and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and, in some cases, to the local media; strengthens enforcement and imposes higher financial penalties for HIPAA violations and, in certain cases, imposes criminal penalties for individuals, including employees. In January 2013, HHS issued its final regulations implementing the ARRA amendments to HIPAA and updating the HIPAA privacy, security and enforcement rules. In the conduct of our business, we may act, depending on the circumstances, as either a covered entity or a business associate. Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information. The use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data by our businesses is also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) or state statutes implementing GLBA, which generally require insurers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures before the insurer shares such information with a third party, and which generally require safeguards for the protection of personal information. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with HIPAA, GLBA and other privacy-related regulations. 
ERISA. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how goods and services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and regulations that is subject to periodic interpretation by the DOL as well as the federal courts. ERISA places controls on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee benefit health plans, particularly those that maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the DOL provide additional rules for claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA. Additionally, some states require licensure or registration of companies providing third-party claims administration services for health care plans. 
State Laws and Regulation 
Health Care Regulation. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. These states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has adopted model regulations that, when implemented by states would require certain governance practices substantially similar to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and expand insurance company and HMO risk and solvency assessment reporting. We expect that states will adopt these or similar measures over the next few years, expanding the scope of regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies. Certain states have also adopted their own regulations for minimum medical loss ratios with which health plans must comply. In addition, a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets, either independent of or to comply with or be eligible for grants or other incentives in connection with the Health Reform Legislation. We expect the states to continue to introduce and pass similar laws in 2013, and this will affect our operations and our financial results.
Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations. Such regulations generally require registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports that describe capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. Some state 

12

Table of Contents


insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material intercompany transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated companies and their parent holding companies or affiliates. These laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies. 
In addition, some of our business and related activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including PPO, managed care organization (MCO), utilization review (UR) or TPA-related regulations and licensure requirements. These regulations differ from state to state, and may contain network, contracting, product and rate, and financial and reporting requirements. There are laws and regulations that set specific standards for delivery of services, appeals, grievances and payment of claims, adequacy of health care professional networks, fraud prevention, protection of consumer health information, pricing and underwriting practice and covered benefits and services. State health care anti-fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing unnecessary medical services and improper marketing. Certain of our businesses are subject to state general agent, broker, and sales distributions laws and regulations. Our UnitedHealthcare Community & State, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and certain Optum businesses are subject to regulation by state Medicaid agencies that oversee the provision of benefits to our Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries and to our dually eligible beneficiaries. We also contract with state governmental entities and are subject to state laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of state government contracts. 
Guaranty Fund Assessments. Under state guaranty fund laws, certain insurance companies (and HMOs in some states), including those issuing health, long-term care, life and accident insurance policies, doing business in those states can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or lines of business. Assessments generally are based on a formula relating to premiums in the state compared to the premiums of other insurers and could be spread out over a period of years. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets.
Pharmacy Regulation. OptumRx’s mail order pharmacies must be licensed to do business as pharmacies in the states in which they are located. Our mail order pharmacies must also register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and individual state controlled substance authorities to dispense controlled substances. In many of the states where our mail order pharmacies deliver pharmaceuticals there are laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail order pharmacies to register with that state’s board of pharmacy or similar regulatory body. These states generally permit the pharmacy to follow the laws of the state in which the mail order pharmacy is located, although some states require that we also comply with certain laws in that state. Our mail order pharmacies maintain certain Medicare and state Medicaid provider numbers as pharmacies providing services under these programs. Participation in these programs requires the pharmacies to comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations. Other laws and regulations affecting our mail order pharmacies include federal and state statutes and regulations governing the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to our PBM businesses. 
Privacy and Security Laws. States have adopted regulations to implement provisions of the GLBA. Like HIPAA, GLBA allows states to adopt more stringent requirements governing privacy protection. A number of states have also adopted other laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and security practices, for example, state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers and sensitive health information or that are designed to protect credit card account data. State and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring businesses to notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. Additionally, different approaches to state privacy and insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies in the different states may materially and adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across state lines. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with state privacy and security-related regulations. 

Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting Laws. Certain of our businesses function as direct service providers to care delivery systems and, as such, are subject to additional laws and regulations. Some states have corporate practice of medicine laws that prohibit certain entities from practicing medicine or employing physicians to practice medicine. Additionally, some states prohibit certain entities from sharing in the fees or revenues of a professional practice (fee-splitting). These prohibitions may be statutory or regulatory, or may be a matter of judicial or regulatory interpretation. These laws, regulations and interpretations have, in certain states, been subject to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation and are subject to change.
Consumer Protection Laws. Certain businesses participate in direct-to-consumer activities and are subject to emerging regulations applicable to on-line communications and other general consumer protection laws and regulations.
Banking Regulation
Optum Bank is subject to regulation by federal banking regulators, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with federal safety and soundness requirements, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which may perform periodic examinations to ensure 

13

Table of Contents


that the bank is in compliance with applicable consumer protection statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. Optum Bank is also subject to supervision and regulation by the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions, which carries out annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and soundness requirements and performs periodic examinations of the bank’s compliance with applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results from any of these agencies, the bank could be subjected to increased operational expenses and capital requirements, enhanced governmental oversight and monetary penalties.
International Regulation
Certain of our businesses and operations are international in nature and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. These regulatory regimes encompass tax, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers) that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, among other matters. We have recently acquired and may in the future acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the United States, increasing our exposure to non-U.S. regulatory regimes. For example, our acquisition of Amil subjects us to Brazilian laws and regulations affecting the managed care and insurance industries and regulation by Brazilian regulators including the national regulatory agency for private health insurance and plans, the Agência Nacional de Saúde Suplementar (ANS), whose approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations could differ from the approach taken by U.S. regulators. For more information about the Amil acquisition, see Note 6 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement included in Item 8, “Financial Statements.” In addition, our non-U.S. businesses and operations are also subject to U.S. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of U.S.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
Audits and Investigations 
We have been and may in the future become involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General (OIG), the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, the FTC, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), U.S. Attorneys, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Brazilian securities regulator, the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários (CVM), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Brazilian federal revenue service - the Secretaria da Receita Federal (SRF), the DOL, the FDIC and other governmental authorities. Certain of our businesses have been reviewed or are currently under review, including for, among other things, compliance with coding and other requirements under the Medicare risk-adjustment model. Such government investigations, audits and reviews can result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation, audit results or sanctions could adversely affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services while retaining our current business. 
COMPETITION 
As a diversified health and well-being services company, we operate in highly competitive markets. Our competitors include managed health care companies, insurance companies, HMOs, TPAs and business services outsourcing companies, health care professionals that have formed networks to directly contract with employers or with CMS, specialty benefit providers, government entities, disease management companies, and various health information and consulting companies. For our UnitedHealthcare businesses, competitors include Aetna Inc., Cigna Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc., Health Net, Inc., Humana Inc., Kaiser Permanente, WellPoint, Inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, and, with respect to our Brazilian operations, several established competitors in Brazil, and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas. For our OptumRx businesses, competitors include CVS Caremark Corporation, Express Scripts, Inc. and Catamaran Corporation. Our OptumHealth and OptumInsight reportable segments also compete with a broad and diverse set of businesses. New entrants into the markets in which we compete, as well as consolidation within these markets, also contribute to a competitive environment. We believe the principal competitive factors that can impact our businesses relate to the sales, marketing and pricing of our products and services; product innovation; consumer engagement and satisfaction; the level and quality of products and services; care delivery; network and clinical management capabilities; market share; product distribution systems; efficiency of administration operations; financial strength and marketplace reputation. If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for additional discussion of our risks related to competition. 
 
EMPLOYEES
As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 133,000 individuals. We believe our employee relations are generally positive. 

14

Table of Contents


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 6, 2013, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years: 

Our Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
Mr. Hemsley is President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group, has served in that capacity since January 2008, and has been a member of the Board of Directors since February 2000. 
Mr. Wichmann is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Mr. Wichmann has served as Executive Vice President and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations since April 2008. From January 2008 to April 2008, Mr. Wichmann served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Commercial Markets Group (now UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual). 
Ms. Boudreaux is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Ms. Boudreaux has overall responsibility for all UnitedHealthcare health benefits businesses. Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealthcare from May 2008 to January 2011. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of Health Care Services Corporation (HCSC) from January 2008 to April 2008. 
Mr. Rangen is Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2008. 
Mr. Renfro is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Optum and has served in that capacity since July 2011. From January 2011 to July 2011, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. From October 2009 to January 2011, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of the Public and Senior Markets Group. From January 2009 to October 2009, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Ovations (now UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement). Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Renfro served as President of Fidelity Developing Businesses at Fidelity Investments and as a member of the Fidelity Executive Committee from June 2008 to January 2009. From January 2008 to May 2008, Mr. Renfro held several senior positions at AARP Services Inc., including President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Services Inc., Chief Operating Officer of AARP Services Inc., President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Financial and President of the AARP Funds.
Ms. Short is Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2013. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Short served as the Managing Partner at Dorsey & Whitney LLP from 2008 to 2012.
Ms. Sweere is Executive Vice President of Human Capital of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2008. 

15

Table of Contents


Additional Information 
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated was incorporated in January 1977 in Minnesota. Our executive offices are located at UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; our telephone number is (952) 936-1300. 
You can access our website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com to learn more about our Company. From that site, you can download and print copies of our annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our Articles of Incorporation, bylaws and corporate governance policies, including our Principles of Governance, Board of Directors Committee Charters, and Code of Conduct. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the SEC. We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit your request to: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary. Information on or linked to our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other SEC filings.
Our transfer agent, Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other administrative services. You can write to our transfer agent at: Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, email stocktransfer@wellsfargo.com, or telephone (800) 468-9716 or (651) 450-4064. 
