Item 1. Business.
 
3M Company was incorporated in 1929 under the laws of the State of Delaware to continue operations begun in 1902. The Company’s ticker symbol is MMM. As used herein, the term “3M” or “Company” includes 3M Company and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. In this document, for any references to Note 1 through Note 17, refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.
 
Available Information
 
The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that the Company files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The Company files annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). The public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
 
3M also makes available free of charge through its website (http://investor.3M.com) the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.
 
General
 
3M is a diversified technology company with a global presence in the following businesses: Industrial and Transportation; Health Care; Consumer and Office; Safety, Security and Protection Services; Display and Graphics; and Electro and Communications. 3M is among the leading manufacturers of products for many of the markets it serves. Most 3M products involve expertise in product development, manufacturing and marketing, and are subject to competition from products manufactured and sold by other technologically oriented companies.
 
At December 31, 2012, the Company employed 87,677 people (full-time equivalents), with 34,746 employed in the United States and 52,931 employed internationally.
 
Business Segments
 
In 2012, 3M managed its operations in six operating business segments: Industrial and Transportation; Health Care; Consumer and Office; Safety, Security and Protection Services; Display and Graphics; and Electro and Communications. 3M’s six business segments bring together common or related 3M technologies, enhancing the development of innovative products and services and providing for efficient sharing of business resources. These segments have worldwide responsibility for virtually all 3M product lines. Certain small businesses and lab-sponsored products, as well as various corporate assets and expenses, are not attributed to the business segments. Financial information and other disclosures relating to 3M’s business segments and operations in major geographic areas are provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Consistent with 3M’s strategy of building relevance and presence in the marketplace, the Company announced in October 2012 that it was immediately beginning to align resources and management toward a new structure comprised of five business groups: Consumer; Industrial; Health Care; Safety and Graphics; and Electronics and Energy. The company’s operating results were managed on the basis of its existing segment structure through 2012, with the intention that results be managed under the new alignment once it is fully effective in the first quarter of 2013.
 
Industrial and Transportation Business: The Industrial and Transportation segment serves a broad range of markets, such as automotive original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and automotive aftermarket (auto body shops and retail), renewable energy, electronics, paper and packaging, food and beverage, and appliance. Industrial and Transportation products include tapes, a wide variety of coated and non-woven abrasives, adhesives, specialty materials, filtration products, energy control products, closure systems for personal hygiene products, acoustic systems products, and
 
3

Table of Contents
 
components and products that are used in the manufacture, repair and maintenance of automotive, marine, aircraft and specialty vehicles. In the fourth quarter of 2012, 3M acquired Ceradyne, Inc., which develops and produces advanced technical ceramics for demanding applications in the automotive, oil and gas, solar, industrial, electronics and defense industries. In 2011, 3M acquired Winterthur Technologie AG, a leading global supplier of precision grinding technology serving customers in the area of hard-to-grind precision applications in industrial, automotive, aircraft and cutting tools.
 
Major industrial products include vinyl, polyester, foil and specialty industrial tapes and adhesives; Scotch® Masking Tape, Scotch® Filament Tape and Scotch® Packaging Tape; packaging equipment; 3M™ VHB™ Bonding Tapes; conductive, low surface energy, hot melt, spray and structural adhesives; reclosable fasteners; label materials for durable goods; and coated, nonwoven and microstructured surface finishing and grinding abrasives for the industrial market. 3M Purification Inc. provides a comprehensive line of filtration products for the separation, clarification and purification of fluids and gases. Other industrial products include fluoroelastomers for seals, tubes and gaskets in engines; and engineering fluids. In addition, this segment provides 3M™ Scotchtint™ Window Film for buildings; 3M™ Ultra Safety and Security Window Film for property and personal protection during destructive weather conditions; closure systems for personal hygiene products; and acoustic systems products.
 
Major transportation products include insulation components, including components for catalytic converters; functional and decorative graphics; abrasion-resistant films; masking tapes; fasteners and tapes for attaching nameplates, trim, moldings, interior panels and carpeting; coated, nonwoven and microstructured finishing and grinding abrasives; structural adhesives; and other specialty materials. In addition, 3M provides paint finishing and detailing products, including a complete system of cleaners, dressings, polishes, waxes and other products.
 
Health Care Business: The Health Care segment serves markets that include medical clinics and hospitals, pharmaceuticals, dental and orthodontic practitioners, health information systems, and food manufacturing and testing. Products and services provided to these and other markets include medical and surgical supplies, skin health and infection prevention products, inhalation and transdermal drug delivery systems, dental and orthodontic products (oral care), health information systems, and food safety products.
 
In the medical and surgical areas, 3M is a supplier of medical tapes, dressings, wound closure products, orthopedic casting materials, electrodes and stethoscopes. In infection prevention, 3M markets a variety of surgical drapes, masks and preps, as well as sterilization assurance equipment. Other products include drug delivery systems, such as metered-dose inhalers, transdermal skin patches and related components. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2010, 3M acquired Arizant Inc., a manufacturer of patient warming solutions designed to prevent hypothermia in surgical settings. Dental and orthodontic products include restoratives, adhesives, finishing and polishing products, crowns, impression materials, preventive sealants, professional tooth whiteners, prophylaxis and orthodontic appliances. In health information systems, 3M develops and markets computer software for hospital coding and data classification, and provides related consulting services. 3M provides food safety products that make it faster and easier for food processors to test the microbiological quality of food.
 
Consumer and Office Business: The Consumer and Office segment serves markets that include consumer retail, office retail, home improvement, building maintenance and other markets. Products in this segment include office supply products, stationery products, construction and home improvement products (do-it-yourself), home care products, protective material products, certain consumer retail personal safety products, and consumer health care products.
 
Major consumer and office products include Scotch® brand products, such as Scotch® Magic™ Tape, Scotch® Glue Stick and Scotch® Cushioned Mailer; Post-it® Products, such as Post-it® Flags, Post-it® Note Pads, Post-it® Labeling & Cover-up Tape, and Post-it® Pop-up Notes and Dispensers; construction and home improvement products, including surface-preparation and wood-finishing materials, Command™ Adhesive Products and Filtrete™ Filters for furnaces and air conditioners; home care products, including Scotch-Brite® Scour Pads, Scotch-Brite® Scrub Sponges, Scotch-Brite™ Microfiber Cloth products, O-Cel-O™ Sponges and Scotchgard™ Fabric Protectors; protective material products; certain maintenance-free respirators; certain consumer retail personal safety products, including safety glasses and hearing protectors; Nexcare™ Adhesive Bandages; and ACE® branded (and related brands) elastic bandage, supports and thermometer product lines.
 
Safety, Security and Protection Services Business: The Safety, Security and Protection Services segment serves a broad range of markets that increase the safety, security and productivity of workers, facilities and systems. Major product offerings include personal protection products, cleaning and protection products for commercial establishments, safety and security products (including border and civil security solutions), roofing granules for asphalt shingles, infrastructure protection products used in the oil and gas pipeline markets, and track and trace solutions. In the fourth quarter of 2010, 3M acquired Cogent Inc. and Attenti Holdings S.A. Cogent Inc. is a provider of finger, palm, face and iris biometric
 
4

Table of Contents
 
systems for governments, law enforcement agencies, and commercial enterprises. Attenti Holdings S.A. is a supplier of remote people-monitoring technologies used for offender-monitoring applications and to assist eldercare facilities in monitoring and enhancing the safety of patients.
 
This segment’s products include personal protection products, such as certain maintenance-free and reusable respirators, personal protective equipment, head and face protection, body protection, hearing protection and protective eyewear. In addition, this segment provides electronic surveillance products, films that protect against counterfeiting, and reflective materials that are widely used on apparel, footwear and accessories, enhancing visibility in low-light situations. 3M’s Track and Trace Solutions business utilizes radio frequency identification (RFID) technology to provide a growing array of solutions. Other products include spill-control sorbents; 3M™ Thinsulate™ Insulation and 3M™ Thinsulate™ Lite Loft™ Insulation; nonwoven abrasive materials for floor maintenance and commercial cleaning; floor matting; natural and color-coated mineral granules for asphalt shingles; and infrastructure protection products.
 
Display and Graphics Business: The Display and Graphics segment serves markets that include electronic display, traffic safety and commercial graphics. This segment includes optical film solutions for LCD electronic displays; reflective sheeting for transportation safety; commercial graphics sheeting and systems; architectural surface and lighting solutions; and mobile interactive solutions, including mobile display technology, visual systems products, and computer screen films.
 
The optical film business provides films that serve numerous market segments of the electronic display industry. 3M provides distinct products for five market segments, including products for: 1) LCD computer monitors, 2) LCD televisions, 3) hand-held devices such as cellular phones and tablets, 4) notebook PCs and 5) automotive displays. In traffic safety systems, 3M provides reflective sheeting used on highway signs, vehicle license plates, construction work-zone devices, trucks and other vehicles, and also provides pavement marking systems. Major commercial graphics products include films, inks, digital signage systems and related products used to produce graphics for vehicles, signs and interior surfaces. The mobile interactive solutions business focuses on bringing technology to the projection market, including mobile display technology in addition to its visual communication products that serve the world’s office and education markets with overhead projectors and transparency films, as well as equipment and materials for electronic and multimedia presentations. In addition, this business includes desktop and notebook computer screen filters that address needs for light control, privacy viewing and glare reduction.
 
Electro and Communications Business: The Electro and Communications segment serves the electrical, electronics and communications industries, including electrical utilities; electrical construction, maintenance and repair; original equipment manufacturer (OEM) electrical and electronics; computers and peripherals; consumer electronics; telecommunications central office, outside plant and enterprise; as well as aerospace, military, automotive and medical markets; with products that enable the efficient transmission of electrical power and speed the delivery of information. Products include electronic and interconnect solutions, microinterconnect systems, high-performance fluids, high-temperature and display tapes, telecommunications products, electrical products, and touch screens and touch monitors.
 
Major electronic and electrical products include packaging and interconnection devices; high-performance fluids used in the manufacture of computer chips, and for cooling electronics and lubricating computer hard disk drives; high-temperature and display tapes; insulating materials, including pressure-sensitive tapes and resins; and related items. 3M™ Flexible Circuits use electronic packaging and interconnection technology, providing more connections in less space, and are used in ink-jet printer cartridges, cell phones and electronic devices. This segment serves the world’s telecommunications companies with a wide array of products for fiber-optic and copper-based telecommunications systems for rapid deployment in fixed and wireless networks. The 3M™ Aluminum Conductor Composite Reinforced (ACCR) electrical power cable, with an aluminum-based metal matrix at its core, increases transmission capacity for existing power lines. The touch systems business includes touch screens and touch monitors.
 
Distribution
 
3M products are sold through numerous distribution channels, including directly to users and through numerous wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in a wide variety of trades in many countries around the world. Management believes the confidence of wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in 3M and its products — a confidence developed through long association with skilled marketing and sales representatives — has contributed significantly to 3M’s position in the marketplace and to its growth.
 
5

Table of Contents
 
Research and Patents
 
Research and product development constitutes an important part of 3M’s activities and has been a major driver of 3M’s sales growth. Research, development and related expenses totaled $1.634 billion in 2012, $1.570 billion in 2011 and $1.434 billion in 2010. Research and development, covering basic scientific research and the application of scientific advances in the development of new and improved products and their uses, totaled $1.079 billion in 2012, $1.036 billion in 2011 and $919 million in 2010. Related expenses primarily include technical support provided by 3M to customers who are using existing 3M products; internally developed patent costs, which include costs and fees incurred to prepare, file, secure and maintain patents; and amortization of acquired patents.
 
The Company’s products are sold around the world under various trademarks. The Company also owns, or holds licenses to use, numerous U.S. and foreign patents. The Company’s research and development activities generate a steady stream of inventions that are covered by new patents. Patents applicable to specific products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or patent grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country.
 
The Company believes that its patents provide an important competitive advantage in many of its businesses. In general, no single patent or group of related patents is in itself essential to the Company as a whole or to any of the Company’s business segments. The importance of patents in the Display and Graphics segment is described in “Performance by Business Segment” — “Display and Graphics Business” in Part II, Item 7, of this Form 10-K.
 
Raw Materials
 
In 2012, the Company experienced stable to declining cost for most raw material categories and transportation fuel costs. This was driven by year-on-year cost decreases in many feedstock categories, including petroleum based materials, minerals, metals and wood pulp based products. To date, the Company is receiving sufficient quantities of all raw materials to meet its reasonably foreseeable production requirements. It is impossible to predict future shortages of raw materials or the impact any such shortages would have. 3M has avoided disruption to its manufacturing operations through careful management of existing raw material inventories and development and qualification of additional supply sources. 3M manages commodity price risks through negotiated supply contracts, price protection agreements and forward physical contracts.
 
Environmental Law Compliance
 
3M’s manufacturing operations are affected by national, state and local environmental laws around the world. 3M has made, and plans to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. 3M is also involved in remediation actions relating to environmental matters from past operations at certain sites. Refer to the “Environmental Matters and Litigation” section in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, for more detail.
 
Environmental expenditures relating to existing conditions caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or future revenues are expensed. Reserves for liabilities related to anticipated remediation costs are recorded on an undiscounted basis when they are probable and reasonably estimable, generally no later than the completion of feasibility studies or the Company’s commitment to a plan of action. Environmental expenditures for capital projects that contribute to current or future operations generally are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
 
In 2012, 3M invested about $27 million in capital projects to protect the environment. This amount excludes expenditures for remediation actions relating to existing matters caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or future revenues, which are expensed. Capital expenditures for environmental purposes have included pollution control devices — such as wastewater treatment plant improvements, scrubbers, containment structures, solvent recovery units and thermal oxidizers — at new and existing facilities constructed or upgraded in the normal course of business. Consistent with the Company’s policies stressing environmental responsibility, capital expenditures (other than for remediation projects) for known projects are presently expected to be about $36 million over the next two years for new or expanded programs to build facilities or modify manufacturing processes to minimize waste and reduce emissions.
 
While the Company cannot predict with certainty the future costs of such cleanup activities, capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, the Company does not believe they will have a material effect on its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
 
6

Table of Contents
 
Executive Officers
 
Following is a list of the executive officers of 3M, and their age, present position, the year elected to their present position and other positions they have held during the past five years. No family relationships exist among any of the executive officers named, nor is there any undisclosed arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer. This information is presented in the table below as of the date of the 10-K filing (February 14, 2013).
 

 
7

Table of Contents
 
Executive Officers (continued)
 

 
8

Table of Contents
 
Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results
 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to shareholders and in press releases. In addition, the Company’s representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements relate to future events and typically address the Company’s expected future business and financial performance. Words such as “plan,” “expect,” “aim,” “believe,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” “should,” “could” and other words and terms of similar meaning, typically identify such forward-looking statements. In particular, these include, among others, statements relating to the Company’s
 
•         strategy for growth, future revenues, earnings, cash flow, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance, and market position,
•         worldwide economic and capital markets conditions, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial conditions of our suppliers and customers, and natural and other disasters affecting the operations of the Company or our suppliers and customers,
•         new business opportunities, product development, and future performance or results of current or anticipated products,
•         the scope, nature or impact of acquisition, strategic alliance and divestiture activities,
•         the outcome of contingencies, such as legal and regulatory proceedings,
•         future levels of indebtedness, common stock repurchases and capital spending,
•         future availability of and access to credit markets,
•         pension and postretirement obligation assumptions and future contributions, asset impairments, tax liabilities, information technology security, and
•         the effects of changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate.
 
The Company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events and trends that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or those reflected in any such forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors. Important information as to these factors can be found in this document, including, among others, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings of “Overview,” “Critical Accounting Estimates” and “Financial Condition and Liquidity.”  Discussion of these factors is incorporated by reference from Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of this document, and should be considered an integral part of Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  For additional information concerning factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements, see our reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC from time to time.
