ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

DuPont was founded in 1802 and was incorporated in Delaware in 1915. DuPont brings world-class science and engineering to the global marketplace in the form of innovative products, materials and services. The company believes that by collaborating with customers, governments, non-governmental organizations and thought leaders it can help find solutions to such global challenges as providing enough healthy food for people everywhere, decreasing dependence on fossil fuels, and protecting life and the environment. Total worldwide employment at December 31, 2012, was about 70,000 people. The company has operations in more than 90 countries worldwide and about 60 percent of consolidated net sales are made to customers outside the United States of America (U.S.). See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the location of the company's sales and property.

Subsidiaries and affiliates of DuPont conduct manufacturing, seed production or selling activities and some are distributors of products manufactured by the company. As a science and technology based company, DuPont competes on a variety of factors such as product quality and performance or specifications, continuity of supply, price, customer service and breadth of product line, depending on the characteristics of the particular market involved and the product or service provided. Most products are marketed primarily through the company's sales force, although in some regions, more emphasis is placed on sales through distributors. The company utilizes numerous suppliers as well as internal sources to supply a wide range of raw materials, energy, supplies, services and equipment. To ensure availability, the company maintains multiple sources for fuels and many raw materials, including hydrocarbon feedstocks. Large volume purchases are generally procured under competitively priced supply contracts.

In third quarter 2012, the company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Performance Coatings business (which represented a reportable segment) for approximately $4.9 billion in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP), the results of Performance Coatings are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. On February 1, 2013, the sale of Performance Coatings was completed.

Business Segments
The company consists of 13 businesses which are aggregated into eight reportable segments based on similar economic characteristics, the nature of the products and production processes, end-use markets, channels of distribution and regulatory environment. The company's reportable segments are Agriculture, Electronics & Communications, Industrial Biosciences, Nutrition & Health, Performance Chemicals, Performance Materials, Safety & Protection and Pharmaceuticals. The company includes certain embryonic businesses not included in the reportable segments, such as pre-commercial programs, and nonaligned businesses in Other. Additional information with respect to business segment results is included in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 22 of this report and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Agriculture
Agriculture businesses, DuPont Pioneer and DuPont Crop Protection, leverage the company's technology, customer relationships and industry knowledge to improve the quantity, quality and safety of the global food supply and the global production agriculture industry. Land available for worldwide agricultural production is increasingly limited so production growth will need to be achieved principally through improving crop yields and productivity rather than through increases in planted area. The segment's businesses deliver a broad portfolio of products and services that are specifically targeted to achieve gains in crop yields and productivity, including Pioneer® brand seed products and well-established brands of insecticides, fungicides and herbicides. Research and development focuses on leveraging technology to increase grower productivity and enhance the value of grains and soy through improved seed traits, superior seed germplasm and effective use of insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. Agriculture accounted for approximately 50 percent of the company's total research and development expense in 2012. 

Sales of the company's products in the segment are affected by the seasonality of global agriculture markets and weather patterns. Sales and earnings performance in the Agriculture segment are strongest in the first half of the year reflecting the northern hemisphere planting season. The segment generally operates at a loss during the third and fourth quarters of the year. As a result of the seasonal nature of its business, Agriculture's inventory is at its highest level at the end of the calendar year and is sold down in the first and second quarters. Trade receivables in the Agriculture segment are at a low point at year-end and increase through the selling season to peak at the end of the second quarter.

Pioneer is a world leader in developing, producing and marketing corn hybrid and soybean varieties which improve the productivity and profitability of its customers. Additionally, Pioneer develops, produces and markets canola, sunflower, sorghum, inoculants, wheat and rice. As the world's population grows and the middle class expands, the need for crops for animal feed, food, biofuels and industrial uses continues to increase. The business competes with other seed and plant biotechnology companies. Pioneer 

2


Part I
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS, continued

seed sales amounted to 21 percent, 19 percent and 19 percent of the company's total consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 

Pioneer's research and development focuses on integrating high yielding germplasm with value added proprietary and/or licensed native and biotechnology traits with local environment and service expertise. Pioneer uniquely develops integrated products for specific regional application based on local product advancement and testing of the product concepts. Research and development in this arena requires long-term commitment of resources, extensive regulatory efforts and collaborations, partnerships and business arrangements to successfully bring products to market. Pioneer licenses biotechnology traits from third parties as a normal course of business. To protect its investment, the business employs the use of patents covering germplasm and native and biotechnology traits in accordance with country laws. 

Pioneer is actively pursuing the development of innovations for corn hybrid, soybean varieties, canola, sunflower, wheat and rice based on market assessments of the most valuable opportunities. In corn hybrids, programs include innovations for drought and nitrogen efficiency, insect protection and herbicide tolerance. In soybean varieties, programs include products with high oleic content, multiple herbicide tolerance and insect protection. 

Pioneer has seed production facilities located throughout the world. Seed production is performed directly by the business or contracted with independent growers and conditioners. Pioneer's ability to produce seeds primarily depends upon weather conditions and availability of reliable contract growers.

Pioneer markets and sells seed product primarily under the Pioneer® brand but also sells and distributes products utilizing additional brand names. Pioneer promotes its products through multiple marketing channels around the world. In the corn and soybean markets of the U.S. Corn Belt, Pioneer® brand products are sold primarily through a specialized force of independent sales representatives. Outside of North America, Pioneer's products are marketed through a network of subsidiaries, joint ventures and independent producer-distributors. 

DuPont Crop Protection serves the global production agriculture industry with crop protection products for field crops such as wheat, corn, soybean and rice; specialty crops such as fruit, nut, vine and vegetables; and non-crop segments, including forestry and land management. Principle crop protection products are weed control, disease control and insect control offerings. Crop Protection products are marketed and sold to growers and other end users through a network of wholesale distributors and crop input retailers. The sales growth of the business' insect control portfolio is led by DuPontTM Rynaxypyr® insecticide, a product registered for sale in 80 countries and sold under four key brands for use across a broad range of core agricultural crops. 

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Agriculture segment include: benzene and carbamic acid related intermediates, copper, corn and soybean seeds, insect control products, natural gas, seed treatments and sulfonamides.

Agriculture segment sales outside the U.S. accounted for 53 percent of the segment's total sales in 2012.

Electronics & Communications
Electronics & Communications (E&C) is a leading supplier of differentiated materials and systems for photovoltaics (PV), consumer electronics, displays and advanced printing that enable superior performance and lower total cost of ownership for customers. The segment leverages the company's strong materials and technology base to target attractive growth opportunities in PV materials, circuit and semiconductor fabrication and packaging materials, display materials, packaging graphics, and ink-jet printing. In the growing PV market, E&C continues to be an industry-leading innovator and supplier of metalization pastes and backsheet materials that improve the efficiency and lifetime of solar cells and modules. In 2012, the segment commercialized new DuPontTM Solamet® PV metallization paste to drive step-change gains in efficiency of solar cells. DuPont is a leading global supplier of materials to the PV industry. 

In the displays market, E&C has developed solution-process technology, which it licenses, and a growing range of materials for active matrix organic light emitting diode (AMOLED) television displays. The segment has a broad portfolio of materials for semiconductor fabrication and packaging, as well as innovative materials for circuit applications, to address critical needs of electronic component and device manufacturers. In consumer electronics, E&C materials add value in the high growth hand-held markets of tablets and smart phones. In packaging graphics, E&C is a leading supplier of flexographic printing systems, including Cyrel® photopolymer plates and platemaking systems. The segment is investing in new products to strengthen its market leadership position in advanced printing markets. The segment is also expanding its leadership position in black-pigmented inks and developing new color-pigmented inks for network printing applications. 

3


Part I
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS, continued

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for E&C include: block co-polymers, copper, difluoroethane, hydroxylamine, oxydianiline, polyester film, precious metals and pyromellitic dianhydride. 

E&C segment sales outside the U.S. accounted for 84 percent of the segment's total sales in 2012.

Industrial Biosciences
Industrial Biosciences is a leader in developing and manufacturing a broad portfolio of enzymes. The segment's enzymes add value and functionality to a broad range of products and processes such as animal nutrition, detergents, food manufacturing, ethanol production and industrial applications resulting in cost and process benefits, better product performance and improved environmental outcomes. Industrial Biosciences also makes DuPontTM Sorona® PTT renewably sourced polymer for use in carpet and apparel fibers.
 
The segment includes a joint venture with Tate & Lyle PLC, DuPont Tate and Lyle Bio Products LLC, to produce BioPDOTM 1,3 propanediol using a proprietary fermentation and purification process. BioPDOTM is the key building block for DuPontTM Sorona® PTT polymer. 
The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Industrial Biosciences segment include: glucoamylase, glycols, grain products, such as dextrose and glucose, and purified terephthalic acid.
Industrial Biosciences segment sales outside the U.S. accounted for 54 percent of the segment's total sales in 2012.

Nutrition & Health
Nutrition & Health is a premier provider of innovative solutions for specialty food ingredients, health and safety. The segment's products, which include cultures, emulsifiers, gums, natural sweeteners and soy-based food ingredients, hold leading market positions based on industry leading innovation, relevant product portfolio and close-partnering with the world's food manufacturers. Nutrition & Health serves various end markets within the food industry including meat, dairy, beverages and bakery segments. Nutrition & Health has research, production and distribution operations around the world. 
  
Nutrition & Health products are marketed and sold under a variety of brand names and are distributed primarily through its direct route to market. The direct route to market focuses on strong customer collaborations and insights with multinational customers and regional customers alike. 
  
The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Nutrition & Health segment include: acetyls, citrus peels, glycerin, grain products, locust bean gum, oils and fats, seaweed, soybean, soy flake, sugar and yeast. 

Nutrition & Health segment sales outside the U.S. accounted for 69 percent of the segment's total sales in 2012. 

Performance Chemicals
Performance Chemicals businesses, DuPont Titanium Technologies and DuPont Chemicals and Fluoroproducts, deliver customized solutions with a wide range of industrial and specialty chemical products for markets including plastics and coatings, textiles, mining, pulp and paper, water treatment and healthcare. 

DuPont Titanium Technologies is the world's largest manufacturer of titanium dioxide, and is dedicated to creating greater value for the coatings, paper, plastics, specialties and minerals markets through service, brand and product. The business' main products include its broad line of DuPontTM Ti-Pure® titanium dioxide products. In 2011, the business announced a global expansion to support increased customer demand for titanium dioxide, including a $500 million investment in new production facilities at the company's Altamira, Mexico site scheduled for completion in 2015. In addition, the business continues to invest in facility upgrades to improve productivity at its other global manufacturing sites. 

DuPont Chemicals and Fluoroproducts is a leading global manufacturer of industrial and specialty fluorochemicals, fluoropolymers and performance chemicals. The business' broad line of products that include refrigerants, lubricants, propellants, solvents, fire extinguishants and electronic gases, cover a wide range of industries and markets. Key brands include DuPontTM Teflon®, Capstone®, Dymel®, OpteonTM yf, Isceon®, Suva®, Vertrel®, Zyron®, Vazo® and Virkon®.

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Performance Chemicals segment include: ammonia, benzene, chlorine, chloroform, fluorspar, hydrofluoric acid, industrial gases, methanol, natural gas, perchloroethylene, petroleum coke, sulfur and titanium ore.

4


Part I
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS, continued

Performance Chemicals segment sales outside the U.S. accounted for 56 percent of the segment's total sales in 2012.

Performance Materials
Performance Materials businesses, Performance Polymers and Packaging & Industrial Polymers, provide productive, higher performance polymers, elastomers, films, parts, and systems and solutions which improve the uniqueness, functionality and profitability of its customers' offerings. The key markets served by the segment include the automotive original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and associated after-market industries, as well as electrical, packaging, construction, oil, electronics, photovoltaics, aerospace, chemical processing and consumer durable goods. The segment has several large customers, primarily in the motor vehicle OEM industry supply chain. The company has long-standing relationships with these customers and they are considered to be important to the segment's operating results. 

Performance Polymers delivers a broad range of polymer-based high performance materials in its product portfolio, including elastomers and thermoplastic and thermoset engineering polymers which are used by customers to fabricate components for mechanical, chemical and electrical systems. The main products include: DuPontTM Zytel® nylon resins, Delrin® acetal resins, Hytrel® polyester thermoplastic elastomer resins, Tynex® filaments, Vespel® parts and shapes, Vamac® ethylene acrylic elastomer, Kalrez® perfluoroelastomer and Viton® fluoroelastomers. Performance Polymers also includes the DuPont Teijin Films joint venture, whose primary products are Mylar® and Melinex® polyester films.

Packaging & Industrial Polymers specializes in resins and films used in packaging and industrial polymer applications, sealants and adhesives, sporting goods, and interlayers for laminated safety glass. Key brands include: DuPontTM Surlyn® ionomer resins, Bynel® coextrudable adhesive resins, Elvax® EVA resins, SentryGlas®, Butacite® laminate interlayers and Elvaloy® copolymer resins.

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Performance Materials segment include: acrylic monomers, adipic acid, butadiene, butanediol, dimethyl terephthalate, ethane, fiberglass, hexamethylenediamine, methanol, natural gas and purified terephthalic acid.

Performance Materials segment sales outside the U.S. accounted for 69 percent of the segment's total sales in 2012.

Safety & Protection
Safety & Protection businesses, Protection Technologies, Sustainable Solutions and Building Innovations, satisfy the growing global needs of businesses, governments and consumers for solutions that make life safer, healthier and more secure. By uniting market-driven science with the strength of highly regarded brands, the segment delivers products and services to a large number of markets, including construction, transportation, communications, industrial chemicals, oil and gas, electric utilities, automotive, manufacturing, defense, homeland security and safety consulting. 

Protection Technologies is focused on finding solutions to protect people and the environment. With products like DuPont™ Kevlar® high strength material, Nomex® thermal resistant material and Tyvek® protective material, the business continues to hold strong positions in life protection markets and meet the continued demand for body armor and personal protective gear for the military, law enforcement personnel, firefighters and other first responders, as well as for workers in the oil and gas industry around the world. In 2011, the business announced the start up of its $500 million Cooper River Kevlar® facility near Charleston, South Carolina. The Cooper River Kevlar® plant uses state-of-the-art technology that will allow the business to meet increased customer demand for advanced protective materials in emerging industries around the world by expanding its portfolio of science-based innovations and boosting productivity. Commercial supply began at the end of 2011.

Sustainable Solutions continues to help organizations worldwide reduce workplace injuries and fatalities while improving operating costs, productivity and quality. Sustainable Solutions is a leader in the safety consulting field, selling training products, as well as consulting services. Additionally, Sustainable Solutions is dedicated to clean air, clean fuel and clean water with offerings that help reduce sulfur and other emissions, formulate cleaner fuels, or dispose of liquid waste. Its goal is to help maintain business continuity and environmental compliance for companies in the refining and petrochemical industries, as well as for government entities. The business includes MECS, Inc. (MECS), which is a leading global provider of process technology, proprietary specialty equipment and technical services to the sulfuric acid industry. 

5


Part I
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS, continued

Building Innovations is committed to the building science behind increasing the performance of building systems, helping reduce operating costs and creating more sustainable structures. The business is a market leader of solid surfaces through its DuPontTM Corian® and Montelli® lines of products which offer durable and versatile materials for residential and commercial purposes. Other products such as DuPont™ Tyvek® and Typar® offer leading solutions for the protection and energy efficiency of buildings.

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Safety & Protection segment include: alumina hydroxide, benzene, high density polyethylene, isophthaloyl chloride, metaphenylenediamine, methyl methacrylate, paraphenylenediamine, polyester fiber, terephthaloyl chloride and wood pulp.

Safety & Protection segment sales outside the U.S. accounted for 62 percent of the segment's total sales in 2012.

Pharmaceuticals
On October 1, 2001, DuPont Pharmaceuticals was sold to the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. DuPont retained its interest in Cozaar® (losartan potassium) and Hyzaar® (losartan potassium with hydrochlorothiazide), which are used in the treatment of hypertension. DuPont has exclusively licensed worldwide marketing and manufacturing rights for Cozaar® and Hyzaar® to Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck). 

Pharmaceuticals' Cozaar®/Hyzaar® income is the sum of two parts: income related to a share of the profits from North American sales and certain markets in Europe, and royalty income derived from worldwide contract net sales linked to the exclusivity term in a particular country. Patents and exclusivity started to expire in prior years and the U.S. exclusivity for Cozaar® ended in April 2010. The worldwide agreement with Merck expired December 31, 2012. The company expects 2013 earnings to be insignificant. 

Backlog
In general, the company does not manufacture its products against a backlog of orders and does not consider backlog to be a significant indicator of the level of future sales activity. Production and inventory levels are based on the level of incoming orders as well as projections of future demand. Therefore, the company believes that backlog information is not material to understanding its overall business and should not be considered a reliable indicator of the company's ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance.

Intellectual Property
DuPont believes that its intellectual property estate provides it with an important competitive advantage. It has an established global network of attorneys, as well as branding, advertising and licensing professionals, to procure, maintain, protect, enhance and gain value from this estate.

The company has access to a large patent portfolio, both owned and licensed. These definite-lived patents cover many products, processes and product uses. These patents protect many aspects of the company's significant research programs and the goods and services it sells. The actual protection afforded by these patents varies from country to country and depends upon the scope of coverage of each individual patent as well as the availability of legal remedies in each country. DuPont owns about 25,635 worldwide patents and is awaiting action on about 20,925 worldwide patent applications. In 2012, the company was granted about 935 U.S. patents and about 2,910 international patents. DuPont's rights under its patents and licenses, as well as the products made and sold under them, are important to the company as a whole, and to varying degrees, important to each reportable segment. 

Trade secrets are an important element of the company's intellectual property. Many of the processes used to make DuPont products are kept as trade secrets which, from time to time, may be licensed to third parties. DuPont vigilantly protects all of its intellectual property including its trade secrets. When the company discovers that its trade secrets have been unlawfully taken, it reports the matter to governmental authorities for investigation and potential criminal action, as appropriate. In addition, the company takes measures to mitigate any potential impact, which may include civil actions seeking redress, restitution and/or damages based on loss to the company and/or unjust enrichment. 

Ownership of and access to intellectual property rights, particularly those relating to biotechnology and germplasm, will continue to be important to Pioneer and its competitors. The environment in which Pioneer competes is characterized by the use among competitors of intellectual property rights, including patent lawsuits, to gain advantage in commercial markets. In support of its business, Pioneer continues to build a large collection of intellectual property rights related to biotechnology and germplasm and to license technology from others, including competitors. Pioneer endeavors to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms.


6


Part I
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS, continued

The company has about 2,065 unique trademarks for its products and services and approximately 19,395 registrations for these trademarks worldwide. Ownership rights in trademarks do not expire if the trademarks are continued in use and properly protected. The company has many trademarks that have significant recognition at the consumer retail level and/or business to business level. 

Research and Development
The company conducts research at either dedicated research facilities or manufacturing plants. There are eleven major research locations in the U.S. & Canada, with the highest concentration of facilities being located in the Wilmington, Delaware area. Reflecting the company's global interests, five major research locations are located in the Asia Pacific region, four major research locations are located in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region and one major location is located in Latin America. 

The objectives of the company's research and development programs are to create new technologies, processes and business opportunities in relevant fields, as well as to improve existing products and processes. Each segment of the company funds research and development activities that support its business mission. The company is expanding its offerings addressing safety, environment, energy and climate challenges in the global marketplace by developing and commercializing renewable, bio-based materials; advanced biofuels; energy-efficient technologies; enhanced safety and protection products; and alternative energy products and technologies. The goals are tied directly to business growth, including increasing food production, increasing renewable sources for energy and raw materials, and providing greater safety and protection for people and the environment. All research and development activities are administered by senior research and development management to ensure consistency with the business and corporate strategy. The future of the company is not dependent upon the outcome of any single research program.

Additional information with respect to research and development, including the amount incurred during each of the last three fiscal years, is included in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 20 of this report.

Environmental Matters
Information related to environmental matters is included in several areas of this report: (1) Environmental Proceedings beginning on page 12, (2) Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on pages 31, 35-37 and (3) Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Available Information
The company is subject to the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Consequently, the company is required to file reports and information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including reports on the following forms: annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

The public may read and copy any materials the company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

The company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are also accessible on the company's website at http://www.dupont.com by clicking on the section labeled "Investors", then on "Key Financials & Filings" and then on "SEC Filings." These reports are made available, without charge, as soon as is reasonably practicable after the company files or furnishes them electronically with the SEC.

Executive Officers of the Registrant
Information related to the company's Executive Officers is included in Item 10, Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance, beginning on page 40 of this report. 

