
Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck” or the “Company”) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, animal health, and consumer care products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company’s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has consumer care operations that develop, manufacture and market over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products, which are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets, as well as club stores and specialty channels. 
For financial information and other information about the Company’s segments, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below. 
All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners. 
Overview 
Merck continued to execute on its strategic priorities during 2012 despite facing several business challenges, including the August U.S. patent expiration for Singulair (montelukast), a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis. Worldwide sales were $47.3 billion in 2012, a decline of 2% compared with 2011, including a 3% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, sales increased 1% reflecting growth of key products and within key geographic regions which offset the impact of the U.S. Singulair patent expiration. The Company also reduced operating expenses by efficiently managing costs through targeted reductions. In addition, the Company generated new clinical data and advanced certain key research and development pipeline programs. 
The Company’s four-part growth strategy is focused on; one, executing on its core business, which includes its largest markets, its core brands, new launch brands, and research and development efforts targeted at therapeutic areas with the greatest future patient demand and scientific opportunity; two, expanding geographically into high-growth markets; three, extending into complementary businesses of consumer care and animal health; and four, effectively managing costs while continuing to invest for future growth. 
Beginning with the Company’s sales performance in its largest markets during 2012, despite the adverse effects of the U.S. Singulair patent expiry which caused a significant and rapid decline in U.S. Singulair sales, sales in the United States were relatively flat compared to the prior year reflecting strong growth of key brands including Januvia (sitagliptin) and Janumet (sitagliptin/metformin HCI), treatments for type 2 diabetes, Zostavax (Zoster Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster), Gardasil (Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11, 16 and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant), a vaccine to help prevent certain diseases caused by four types of human papillomavirus (“HPV”), Victrelis (boceprevir), a treatment for chronic hepatitis C, and Isentress (raltegravir), an antiretroviral therapy for use in combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. Turning to Europe and Canada, the Company continues to experience positive volume growth trends for many of its key 
 
1 

Table of Contents
brands, including Victrelis, Januvia, Janumet, and Simponi (golimumab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases; however, this growth only partially offset increased generic erosion and the price declines stemming from the economic issues and related fiscal austerity measures in this region. 
With respect to research and development efforts, the Company continued the advancement of drug candidates through its pipeline in 2012. The Company currently has three candidates under review with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”): MK-4305, suvorexant, an investigational treatment for insomnia; MK-8616, sugammadex sodium injection, a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery; and MK-0653C, an investigational combination of ezetimibe and atorvastatin for the treatment of primary or mixed hyperlipidemia. MK-8109, vintafolide, an investigational cancer candidate, is under review in the European Union (the “EU”). In addition, the Company currently has 16 candidates in Phase III development and anticipates filing a New Drug Application (“NDA”) or a Biologics License Application (“BLA”), as applicable, with the FDA with respect to several of these candidates in 2013. 
In December 2012, the Company announced the HPS2-THRIVE (Heart Protection Study 2-Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events) study of Tredaptive (extended-release niacin/laropipant) did not meet its primary endpoint. As a result, the Company does not plan to seek regulatory approval for the medicine in the United States. In January 2013, Merck began taking steps to suspend the availability of Tredaptive outside the United States. Also, on February 1, 2013, the Company announced that it had recently received and was reviewing safety and efficacy data from a Phase III study involving MK-0822, odanacatib, the Company’s investigational treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women. As a result of its review of this data, the Company concluded that review of additional data from the previously planned, ongoing extension study was warranted and that filing an application for approval with the FDA should be delayed. As previously announced, the Company is conducting a blinded extension of the trial in approximately 8,200 women, which will provide additional safety and efficacy data. Merck now anticipates that it will file applications for approval of odanacatib in 2014 with additional data from the extension trial. The Company continues to believe that odanacatib will have the potential to address unmet medical needs in patients with osteoporosis. 
Merck continues to pursue opportunities for establishing external alliances to complement its substantial internal research capabilities, including research collaborations, as well as licensing preclinical and clinical compounds and technology platforms that have the potential to drive both near- and long-term growth. During 2012, the Company completed a variety of transactions spanning different therapeutic areas and clinical stages including licensing agreements with Endocyte, Inc. (“Endocyte”) for vintafolide (MK-8109), an investigational cancer candidate, and with AiCuris for a portfolio of investigational medicines targeting human cytomegalovirus, including letermovir (MK-8228). 
Consistent with the second element of the Company’s strategy to expand geographically in high-growth markets such as Japan and key emerging markets, the Company continued to invest in these markets in 2012. Emerging market sales grew 4% in 2012, including a 4% unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, despite the loss of sales from Remicade (infliximab) and Simponi, treatments for inflammatory diseases, in markets relinquished to Johnson & Johnson (“J&J”) as part of the arbitration settlement agreement in 2011 as discussed below. China continues to be an important growth driver with sales exceeding $1.0 billion in 2012, representing growth of 25% over the prior year, including a 3% favorable effect from foreign exchange. Growth in Japan was 6% during 2012, tempered by generic competition and the biennial price cuts early in the year. Merck has entered into several transactions designed to strengthen its presence in the emerging markets in the longer term. The Company’s joint venture with Simcere Pharmaceutical Group in China began preliminary operations in late-2012. 
The third component of Merck’s strategy relates to the complementary businesses of Consumer Care and Animal Health. Merck’s Animal Health business continues as a solid contributor with 4% revenue growth in 2012, including a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, reflecting growth in the cattle, poultry, companion animal and swine product lines. Sales of Consumer Care products grew 6% in 2012, including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, led by the Dr. Scholl’s franchise and higher sales of Coppertone, MiraLAX and Claritin. 
As noted, the last element of the Company’s strategy is to tightly manage costs while also investing for growth. Consistent with these efforts, Merck remains committed to driving continuous productivity improvements across the enterprise and continues to realize cost savings across all areas of the Company. These savings result 
 
2 

Table of Contents
from various actions, including the Merger Restructuring Program discussed below, previously announced ongoing cost reduction activities, as well as from non-restructuring-related activities. As of the end of 2012, the Company had achieved its projected $3.5 billion in annual net cost savings from these activities since the merger with Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) (the “Merger”). 
The global restructuring program that was initiated in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses (the “Merger Restructuring Program”) is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. The workforce reductions associated with this plan relate to the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company recorded total pretax restructuring costs of $951 million in 2012, $1.8 billion in 2011 and $1.8 billion in 2010 related to this program. Costs associated with the Company’s restructuring actions are included in Materials and production costs, Marketing and administrative expenses, Research and development expenses and Restructuring costs. The restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2013, with the exception of certain actions, principally manufacturing-related. Subsequent to the Merger, the Company has rationalized a number of manufacturing sites worldwide. The remaining actions under this program will result in additional manufacturing facility rationalizations, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2016. The Company now expects the estimated total cumulative pretax costs for this program to be approximately $7.2 billion to $7.5 billion. The Company estimates that approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. The Company expects the Merger Restructuring Program to yield annual savings by the end of 2013 of approximately $3.5 billion to $4.0 billion and annual savings upon completion of the program of approximately $4.0 billion to $4.6 billion. 
In November 2012, Merck’s Board of Directors raised the Company’s quarterly dividend to $0.43 per share from $0.42 per share. 
In February 2013, Merck reached an agreement in principle with plaintiffs to resolve two federal securities class-action lawsuits pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Merck, Schering-Plough and certain of their current and former officers and directors (the “ENHANCE Litigation”). Under the proposed agreement, Merck will pay $215 million to resolve the securities class action against all of the Merck defendants and $473 million to resolve the securities class action against all of the Schering-Plough defendants. In connection with the settlement, Merck recorded a pretax and after-tax charge of $493 million in 2012 which reflects $195 million of anticipated insurance recoveries. 
Earnings per common share assuming dilution attributable to common shareholders (“EPS”) for 2012 were $2.00, which reflect a net unfavorable impact resulting from acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs, as well as the charge related to the ENHANCE Litigation noted above. Non-GAAP EPS in 2012 were $3.82 excluding these items (see “Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS” below). 
 
3 

Table of Contents
Product Sales 
Sales of the Company’s products were as follows: 
 

 

 

 

 

 
4 

Table of Contents
Pharmaceutical 
The Company’s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Certain of the products within the Company’s franchises are as follows: 
Primary Care and Women’s Health 
Cardiovascular:    Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States); and Vytorin (ezetimibe/simvastatin) (marketed as Inegy outside the United States), cholesterol modifying medicines. 
Diabetes and Obesity:    Januvia and Janumet for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. 
Respiratory:    Singulair; Nasonex (mometasone furoate monohydrate), an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms; Clarinex (desloratadine), a non-sedating antihistamine; Dulera Inhalation Aerosol (mometasone furoate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate), a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma; and Asmanex Twisthaler (mometasone furoate inhalation powder), an inhaled corticosteroid for first-line maintenance treatment of asthma in patients 4 years of age and older. 
Women’s Health and Endocrine:    Fosamax (alendronate sodium) for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis; NuvaRing (etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal contraceptive ring; Follistim AQ (follitropin beta injection), a biological fertility treatment; Implanon (etonogestrel implant), a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant; and Cerazette (desogestrel), a progestin only oral contraceptive. 
Other:    Maxalt (rizatriptan benzoate), a product for acute treatment of migraine; Arcoxia (etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain; and Avelox (moxifloxacin), which the Company only markets in the United States, a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin infections. 
Hospital and Specialty 
Immunology:    Remicade and Simponi for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. 
Infectious Disease:    Isentress; PegIntron (peginterferon alpha-2b), a treatment for chronic hepatitis C; Cancidas (caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product; Victrelis; Invanz (ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of certain infections; Primaxin (imipenem and cilastatin sodium), an anti-bacterial product; and Noxafil (posaconazole) for the prevention of invasive fungal infections. 
Oncology:    Temodar (temozolomide) (marketed as Temodal outside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors; and Emend (aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting. 
Other:    Cosopt (dorzolamide hydrochloride-timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) and Trusopt (dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution), ophthalmic products; Bridion (sugammadex sodium injection), a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery; and Integrilin (eptifibatide), a treatment for patients with acute coronary syndrome. 
Diversified Brands 
Cozaar (losartan potassium) and Hyzaar (losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension; Propecia (finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss; Zocor (simvastatin), a statin for modifying cholesterol; Claritin Rx (loratadine) for treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year-round indoor allergies; Remeron (mirtazapine), an antidepressant; Proscar (finasteride), a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement; and Vasotec (enalapril maleate) and Vaseretic (enalapril maleate-hydrochlorothiazide), hypertension and/or heart failure products. 
Vaccines 
Gardasil;    ProQuad (Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella; M-M-R II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella; Varivax (Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella); Zostavax; RotaTeq (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; and Pneumovax (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease. 
 
5 

Table of Contents
Animal Health 
The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal marketed products in this segment include: 
Livestock Products:    Nuflor antibiotic range for use in cattle and swine; Bovilis/Vista vaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle; Banamine bovine and swine anti-inflammatory; Estrumate for the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle; Regumate/Matrix fertility management for swine and horses; Resflor combination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease; Zuprevo for bovine respiratory disease; Zilmax and Revalor to improve production efficiencies in beef cattle; M+Pac swine pneumonia vaccine; and Porcilis vaccine line for infectious diseases in swine. 
Poultry Products:    Nobilis/Innovax, vaccine lines for poultry; and Paracox and Coccivac coccidiosis vaccines. 
Companion Animal Products:    Nobivac/Continuum vaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination; Otomax/Mometamax/Posatex ear ointments for acute and chronic otitis; Caninsulin/Vetsulin diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats; Panacur/Safeguard broad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals; and Activyl/Scalibor/Exspot for protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies. 
Aquaculture Products:    Slice parasiticide for sea lice in salmon; Aquavac/Norvax vaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish; Compact PD vaccine for salmon; and Aquaflor antibiotic for farm-raised fish. 
Consumer Care 
The Consumer Care segment develops, manufactures and markets over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. Principal products in this segment include: 
Over-the-Counter Products:    Claritin non-drowsy antihistamines; MiraLAX for relief of occasional constipation; Coricidin HBP decongestant-free cold/flu medicine for people with high blood pressure; Afrin nasal decongestant spray; and Zegerid OTC treatment for frequent heartburn. 
Foot Care:    Dr. Scholl’s foot care products; Lotrimin topical antifungal products; and Tinactin topical antifungal products and foot and sneaker odor/wetness products. 
Sun Care:    Coppertone sun care lotions, sprays and dry oils. 
For a further discussion of sales of the Company’s products, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below. 
Product Approvals 
In February 2012, the FDA approved Zioptan (tafluprost), a preservative-free prostaglandin analog ophthalmic solution for reducing elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Merck has exclusive commercial rights to tafluprost in Western Europe (excluding Germany), North America, South America, Africa, the Middle East, India and Australia. Zioptan is marketed as Saflutan in certain markets outside the United States. Also, in February 2012, the FDA approved Janumet XR, a new treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines sitagliptin, which is the active component of Januvia, with extended-release metformin. Janumet XR provides a convenient once-daily treatment option for health care providers and patients who need help to control their blood sugar. In addition, in February 2012, the FDA approved Cosopt PF, Merck’s preservative-free formulation of Cosopt ophthalmic solution, indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 
Joint Ventures 
AstraZeneca LP 
In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra products in the United States. In 1994, Merck and Astra formed an equally owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of Astra’s new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec (omeprazole), the first in a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining. 
 
6 

Table of Contents
In 1998, Merck and Astra restructured the joint venture whereby Merck acquired Astra’s interest in the joint venture, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the “Partnership”), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) upon Astra’s 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc, became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights. 
The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products. The Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, a preferential return representing the Company’s share of undistributed Partnership AZLP generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) earnings, and a variable return related to the Company’s 1% limited partner interest. 
In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above, Astra purchased an option (the “Asset Option”) for a payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Merck’s interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the “Non-PPI Products”). In April 2010, AstraZeneca exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Merck from the Non-PPI Products, which was recorded as a reduction to the Company’s investment in AZLP. The Company recognized the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component of Other (income) expense, net. In addition, in 1998, Merck granted Astra an option to buy Merck’s common stock interest in KBI and, through it, Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec as well as AZLP, exercisable in 2012. In June 2012, Merck and AstraZeneca amended the 1998 option agreement. The updated agreement eliminated AstraZeneca’s option to acquire Merck’s interest in KBI in 2012 and provides AstraZeneca a new option to acquire Merck’s interest in KBI in June 2014. As a result of the amended agreement, Merck continues to record supply sales and equity income from the partnership. In 2014, AstraZeneca has the option to purchase Merck’s interest in KBI based in part on the value of Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec. AstraZeneca’s option is exercisable between March 1, 2014 and April 30, 2014. If AstraZeneca chooses to exercise this option, the closing date is expected to be June 30, 2014. Under the amended agreement, AstraZeneca will make a payment to Merck upon closing of $327 million, reflecting an estimate of the fair value of Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec. This portion of the exercise price is subject to a true-up in 2018 based on actual sales from closing in 2014 to June 2018. The exercise price will also include an additional amount equal to a multiple of ten times Merck’s average 1% annual profit allocation in the partnership for the three years prior to exercise. The Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise its option in 2014. If AstraZeneca exercises its option, the Company will no longer record equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP will decline substantially. 
Sanofi Pasteur MSD 
In 1994, Merck and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then-existing EU and the European Free Trade Association. Merck and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur Mérieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through distributors in the rest of its territory. 
Licenses 
In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. (“Centocor”), a J&J company, to market Remicade, which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough’s subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize Simponi, a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company had exclusive marketing rights to both products outside the United States, Japan and certain other Asian markets. In December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both Remicade and Simponi, extending the Company’s rights to exclusively market Remicade to match the duration of the Company’s exclusive marketing rights for Simponi. In addition, 
 
7 

Table of Contents
Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to Simponi’s auto-injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the European Commission (“EC”) approved Simponi as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations — a novel auto-injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Company’s marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of Simponi in the EU following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. 
In April 2011, Merck and J&J reached an agreement to amend the agreement governing the distribution rights to Remicade and Simponi. Under the terms of the amended distribution agreement, Merck relinquished marketing rights for Remicade and Simponi to J&J in territories including Canada, Central and South America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific effective July 1, 2011. Merck retained exclusive marketing rights throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey (the “Retained Territories”). In addition, beginning July 1, 2011, all profits derived from Merck’s exclusive distribution of the two products in the Retained Territories are being equally divided between Merck and J&J. J&J also received a one-time payment from Merck of $500 million in April 2011. 
Competition and the Health Care Environment 
Competition 
The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company’s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer health care manufacturers. The Company’s operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors’ branded products, new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance and generic competition as the Company’s products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. 
Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for the Company’s products in that therapeutic category. 
The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company’s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. 
The Company’s consumer care operations face competition from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. The Company’s competitive position is affected by several factors, including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, the quality and price of the Company’s products, promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label brands. 
Health Care Environment 
Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients. 
 
8 

Table of Contents
Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010, which began to be implemented in 2010. Various insurance market reforms have advanced and will continue through full implementation in 2014. The law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million Americans by the end of the decade who did not previously have insurance coverage. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the mandated Medicaid rebate increased from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called “donut hole”). Approximately $210 million and $150 million was recorded by Merck as a reduction to revenue in 2012 and 2011, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $2.8 billion in 2012 and will be $2.8 billion in 2013. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company recorded $190 million and $162 million of costs within Marketing and administrative expenses in 2012 and 2011, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. 
The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. 
In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company. 
Efforts toward health care cost containment remain intense in several European countries. Many countries have announced austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs and mandatory switches to generic drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the impact in the EU, the austerity measures continued to negatively affect the Company’s revenue performance in 2012 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2013. 
Additionally, the global economic downturn and the sovereign debt issues in certain European countries, among other factors, have adversely affected foreign receivables in certain European countries. While the Company continues to receive payment on these receivables, these conditions have resulted in an increase in the average length of time it takes to collect accounts receivable outstanding thereby adversely affecting cash flows. 
Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges will continue in 2013 to varying degrees in the emerging markets. 
The Company’s focus on and share of revenue from emerging markets has increased. Countries in these markets may be subject to conditions that can affect the Company’s efforts to continue to grow in emerging markets, including potential political instability, significant currency fluctuation and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company’s risk exposure. 
 
9 

Table of Contents
The full impact of health care reform, as well as continuing budget pressures on governments around the world, cannot be predicted at this time. 
In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to attempt to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company seeks to work with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of government health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase their investments in order to improve their citizens’ access to appropriate health care, including medicines. 
Certain markets outside of the United States have implemented health technology assessments and other cost management strategies which require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of which increase the complexity and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on reimbursement available and obtained. 
Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company’s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. 
Government Regulation 
The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Governmental regulation and legislation tend to focus on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement, especially related to the pricing of products. 
Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. 
The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company’s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company’s business. 
The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment. 
Access to Medicines 
As a global health care company, Merck’s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. The Company’s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging and include a set of principles that the Company strives to embed into its operations and business strategies to guide the Company’s worldwide approach to expanding access to health care. For example, the Company has been recognized for pricing many of its products through a differential pricing framework, taking into consideration such factors as a country’s level of economic development and public health need. In addition, the Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people in the United States who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without the Company’s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicine and vaccines. 
Building on the Company’s own efforts, Merck has undertaken collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to medicines and enhance the quality of life for people around the world. 
 
10 

Table of Contents
For example, in 2011, Merck announced that it would launch “Merck for Mothers,” a long-term effort with global health partners to create a world where no woman has to die from preventable complications of pregnancy and childbirth. The launch includes a 10-year, $500 million initiative that applies Merck’s scientific and business expertise to making proven solutions more widely available, developing new technologies and improving public awareness, policy efforts and private sector engagement to reduce maternal mortality. 
Merck has also in the past provided funds to the Merck Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health. One of these partnerships is The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the government of Botswana that was renewed in 2010 and supports Botswana’s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support. 
Privacy and Data Protection 
The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging markets with the potential to affect directly the Company’s business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America and increased enforcement activity in the United States and other developed markets. 
Distribution 
The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers, such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company’s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the Company’s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. The Company’s over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets, as well as club stores and specialty channels. 
Raw Materials 
Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company’s business. 
Patents, Trademarks and Licenses 
Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company’s marketing of its products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents may cover products per se, pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. 
The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. Current U.S. patent law provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review by the FDA. 
 
11 

Table of Contents
Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed products: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. 
The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for Avelox expires in March 2014; however, by agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version of Avelox in the United States in February 2014. Also, the patent that provides market exclusivity in the United States for Temodar will expire in February 2014; however, by agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version of Temodar in the United States in August 2013. The Company anticipates that sales in the United States will decline significantly after these patent expiries. 
 
12 

Table of Contents
Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by an increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties. 
The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates under review in the United States by the FDA. Additional patent term may be provided for these pipeline candidates based on Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity. 
 

The Company also has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates in Phase III development: 
 

 

 

 

 

For further information with respect to the Company’s patents, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 11. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below. 
Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. 
Royalty income in 2012 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $352 million. Merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.3 billion in 2012 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. 
 
13 

Table of Contents
Research and Development 
The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. Approximately 13,600 people are employed in the Company’s research activities. Research and development expenses were $8.2 billion in 2012, $8.5 billion in 2011, and $11.1 billion in 2010 (which included restructuring costs in all years, as well as $200 million, $587 million and $2.4 billion of in-process research and development impairment charges in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively). The Company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in support of new products. 
The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Company’s research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Company’s research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best-in-class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Another important component of the Company’s science-based diversification is based on expanding the Company’s portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins, antibodies) and RNAi. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through biosimilars, which have the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company supplements its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies. 
The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women’s health. 
In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the NDA for a drug or the BLA for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required approval. 
Once the Company’s scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the Company commences preclinical testing with that compound. Preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. Pending acceptable preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase I studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. If favorable, additional, larger Phase II studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound’s usefulness. In some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. One type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive Phase IIa/IIb trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a Phase IIa proof-of-concept stage and a Phase IIb dose-optimization finding stage. If data from the Phase II trials are satisfactory, the Company commences large-scale Phase III trials to confirm the compound’s efficacy and safety. Upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. There can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. 
Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine’s safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate 
 
14 

Table of Contents
the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. Phase II studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally, Phase III trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. 
In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a complete NDA or BLA is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. Within 60 days after receipt, the FDA determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. Pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act V, the FDA review period target for NDAs or original BLAs is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. Once the review timelines are determined, the FDA will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the Company’s own initiative or the FDA’s request) to the pending application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. Extensions to the review period are communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter, or by issuing a Complete Response Letter stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the FDA has identified. Should the Company wish to pursue an application after receiving a Complete Response Letter, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the FDA in order to support approval. Resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. 
The primary method the Company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the “centralized procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) with the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”). After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the EC and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a “mutual recognition procedure,” in which an application is made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. 
Research and Development Update 
The Company currently has four candidates under regulatory review in the United States and internationally. 
MK-4305, suvorexant, an investigational insomnia medicine in a new class of medicines called orexin receptor antagonists for use in patients with difficulty falling or staying asleep, is under review by the FDA. Suvorexant will be evaluated by the Controlled Substance Staff of the FDA during NDA review. If approved by the FDA, suvorexant will become available after a schedule assessment and determination has been completed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, which routinely occurs after FDA approval. The Company has also submitted a new drug application for suvorexant to the health authorities in Japan and is continuing with plans to seek approval for suvorexant in other countries around the world. 
MK-8616, sugammadex sodium injection, is an investigational agent for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium (neuromuscular blocking agents) under review by the FDA. Neuromuscular blockade is used in anesthesiology to induce muscle relaxation during surgery. If approved, MK-8616 would be the first in a new class of medicines in the United States known as selective relaxant binding agents to be used in the surgical setting. In 2008, the FDA did not approve the original NDA for sugammadex sodium injection, requesting additional data related to hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions and coagulation (bleeding) events. Merck submitted these requested data within the NDA resubmission, which the FDA deemed complete for review. The Company expects the FDA’s review to be completed in the first half of 2013. Sugammadex sodium injection is approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the United States where it is marketed as Bridion. 
 
15 

Table of Contents
MK-8109, vintafolide, is an investigational cancer candidate under review by the EMA. As part of an exclusive license agreement with Endocyte, Merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of vintafolide in oncology. The EMA accepted the MAA filings for vintafolide and Endocyte’s investigational companion diagnostic imaging agent, etarfolatide, for the targeted treatment of patients with folate-receptor positive platinum-resistant ovarian cancer in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. Both vintafolide and etarfolatide have been granted orphan drug status by the EC. Vintafolide is in Phase III development in the United States. 
MK-0653C is an investigational combination of ezetimibe and atorvastatin for the treatment of primary or mixed hyperlipidemia under review by the FDA. An updated NDA for MK-0653C was deemed complete for review by the FDA after Merck submitted additional data in response to the FDA’s Complete Response Letter issued in 2012. Merck expects the FDA’s review to be completed in the first half of 2013. Merck is continuing to move forward with planned filings for the ezetimibe and atorvastatin combination tablet in additional countries around the world. 
In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has 16 drug candidates in Phase III development targeting a broad range of diseases. The Company anticipates filing an NDA or a BLA, as applicable, with the FDA with respect to several of these candidates in 2013. 
V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to help protect against certain HPV-related diseases. V503 incorporates antigens against five additional cancer-causing HPV types as compared with Gardasil. As previously disclosed, the 14,000-patient Phase III event-driven clinical study of V503 is ongoing. Merck anticipates filing a BLA for V503 with the FDA in 2013. 
MK-8962, corifollitropin alpha injection, which is being marketed as Elonva in the EU, is an investigational fertility treatment for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating in in vitro fertilization or intracytoplasmic sperm injection currently in Phase III development in the United States. Merck continues to anticipate filing an NDA for MK-8962 with the FDA in 2013. 
MK-5348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist being developed for the prevention of thrombosis, or clot formation, and the reduction of cardiovascular events. Vorapaxar has been evaluated in two major clinical outcomes studies in different patient groups: TRACER (Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical Event Reduction in Acute Coronary Syndrome), a clinical outcomes trial in patients with acute coronary syndrome, and TRA-2P (Thrombin Receptor Antagonist in Secondary Prevention of atherothrombotic ischemic events), a secondary prevention study in patients with a previous heart attack or ischemic stroke, or with documented peripheral vascular disease. In March 2012, results from the TRA-2P study of vorapaxar were presented at the American College of Cardiology Annual Scientific Session and published concurrently in the online edition of the New England Journal of Medicine. In the study, the addition of vorapaxar to standard of care (e.g. aspirin or thienopyridine or both) resulted in a significantly greater reduction in the risk of the composite of cardiovascular death, heart attack, stroke or urgent coronary revascularization. There was also a significant increase in bleeding, including intracranial hemorrhage, among patients taking vorapaxar in addition to standard of care, although the risk of intracranial hemorrhage was lower in patients without a history of stroke. In November 2011, researchers presented results from the TRACER outcomes study at the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions, and the results have been published. TRACER did not achieve its primary endpoint. In January 2011, Merck and the external study investigators announced that the combined Data Safety Monitoring Board (“DSMB”) for the two clinical trials had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data, and recommended that patients in the TRACER trial discontinue study drug and investigators close out the study. Following a review of the clinical trial data and discussions with external experts, Merck plans to file applications for vorapaxar in the United States and EU in 2013 seeking an indication for the prevention of cardiovascular events in patients with a history of heart attack and no history of transient ischemic attack or stroke. 
MK-7243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet (“AIT”) in Phase III development for grass pollen allergy for which the Company has North American rights. AIT is a dissolvable oral tablet that is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective immune response against allergies, thereby treating the underlying cause of the disease. Merck is investigating AIT for the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in both children and adults. The Company has submitted a BLA for MK-7243 with the FDA. 
 
16 

Table of Contents
MK-3641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in Phase III development for the North American market. The Company anticipates filing a BLA for MK-3641 with the FDA in 2013. 
MK-8175A, NOMAC/E2, which is being marketed as Zoely in the EU, is an investigational oral contraceptive for use by women to prevent pregnancy. NOMAC/E2 is a combined oral contraceptive tablet containing a unique monophasic combination of two hormones: nomegestrol acetate, a highly selective progesterone-derived progestin, and 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen that is similar to the one naturally present in a women’s body. In November 2011, Merck received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for NOMAC/E2. The Company is conducting an additional clinical study requested by the FDA and plans to update the application in the future. 
MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women. Osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. In July 2012, Merck announced an update on the Phase III trial assessing fracture risk reduction with odanacatib. The independent Data Monitoring Committee (the “DMC”) for the study completed its first planned interim analysis for efficacy and recommended that the study be closed early due to robust efficacy and a favorable benefit-risk profile. The DMC noted that safety issues remain in certain selected areas and made recommendations with respect to following up on them. On February 1, 2013, Merck announced that it had recently received and was reviewing safety and efficacy data from the Phase III trial. As a result of its review of this data, the Company concluded that review of additional data from the previously planned, ongoing extension study was warranted and that filing an application for approval with the FDA should be delayed. As previously announced, the Company is conducting a blinded extension of the trial in approximately 8,200 women, which will provide additional safety and efficacy data. Merck now anticipates that it will file applications for approval of odanacatib in 2014 with additional data from the extension trial. The Company continues to believe that odanacatib will have the potential to address unmet medical needs in patients with osteoporosis. 
MK-3814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor antagonist in Phase III development for treatment of Parkinson’s disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-3814 with the FDA in 2014. 
V212 is an inactivated VZV vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. The Company is enrolling two Phase III trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. The Company anticipates filing a BLA first with the autologous hematopoietic cell transplant data in 2014 and filing for the second indication in cancer patients at a later date. 
V419 is an investigational hexavalent pediatric combination vaccine, which contains components of current vaccines, designed to help protect against six potentially serious diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough (Bordetella pertussis), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b, and hepatitis B that is being developed in collaboration with Sanofi-Pasteur. The Company anticipates filing a BLA for V419 with the FDA in 2014. 
MK-7009, vaniprevir, is an investigational, oral twice-daily protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus for development in Japan only. The Company anticipates filing a new drug application for MK-7009 in Japan in 2014. 
MK-3102 is an investigational once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor in development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-3102 with the FDA beyond 2014. 
MK-3222 is an anti-interleukin-23 monoclonal antibody candidate being investigated for the treatment of psoriasis. The Company anticipates filing a BLA for MK-3222 with the FDA beyond 2014. 
MK-3415A, actoxumab/bezlotoxumab, an investigational candidate for the treatment of Clostridium difficile infection, is a combination of two monoclonal antibodies used to treat patients with a single infusion. The Company now anticipates filing a BLA for MK-3415A with the FDA in 2015. 
 
17 

Table of Contents
MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (“CETP”) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise HDL-C and reduce LDL-C. Based on the results from the Phase III DEFINE (Determining the EFficacy and Tolerability of CETP INhibition with AnacEtrapib) safety study of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease or coronary heart disease risk equivalents, the Company initiated a large, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial REVEAL (Randomized EValuation of the Effects of Anacetrapib Through Lipid-modification) involving patients with preexisting vascular disease that is predicted to be completed in 2017. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for anacetrapib with the FDA beyond 2015. 
MK-8931 is Merck’s novel investigational oral ß-amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibitor for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. In December 2012, Merck announced the initiation of a Phase II/III clinical trial (EPOCH) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MK-8931 versus placebo in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease. 
MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is an investigational oral mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor under development for cancer indications. In June 2012, Merck announced that the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter regarding the NDA for ridaforolimus as a treatment for metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcoma. The Complete Response Letter states that the FDA cannot approve the application in its present form, and that additional clinical trial(s) would need to be conducted to further assess safety and efficacy. In November 2012, Merck formally notified the EMA of its decision to withdraw the MAA for ridaforolimus that was accepted by the EMA in 2011. The Company no longer plans to pursue the sarcoma indication in the United States or the EU, but will continue to support patients enrolled in ongoing clinical trials. Merck remains committed to pursuing ridaforolimus in other cancer indications. As part of an exclusive license agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“ARIAD”), Merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of ridaforolimus in oncology. 
In December 2012, Merck announced the HPS2-THRIVE study of MK-0524A, Tredaptive, did not meet its primary endpoint. In the study, adding the combination of extended-release niacin and laropiprant to statin therapy did not significantly further reduce the risk of the combination of coronary deaths, non-fatal heart attacks, strokes or revascularizations compared to statin therapy. In addition, there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of some types of non-fatal serious adverse events in the group that received extended-release niacin/laropiprant compared to statin therapy. Merck does not plan to seek regulatory approval for the medicine in the United States. In January 2013, based on the understanding of the preliminary data from the HPS2-THRIVE study and in consultation with regulatory authorities, Merck began taking steps to suspend the availability of Tredaptive, which is approved for use in certain countries outside of the United States. The clinical development program for MK-0524B, a combination product of extended-release niacin with laropiprant and simvastatin, had previously been discontinued. 
In 2012, Merck announced that it will return the global marketing and development rights for both the intravenous and oral formulations for vernakalant, a treatment for atrial fibrillation, to Cardiome Pharma Corp. for business reasons. Merck also decided in 2012 to discontinue the clinical development program for MK-0431E, a combination product of sitagliptin and atorvastatin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, for business reasons. 
 
18 

Table of Contents
The chart below reflects the Company’s research pipeline as of February 22, 2013. Candidates shown in Phase III include specific products and the date such candidate entered into Phase III development. Candidates shown in Phase II include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given MK-number designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Candidates in Phase I, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. 
 

Employees 
As of December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately 83,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 32,500 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 31% of worldwide employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. 
In 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the “Merger Restructuring Program”) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses designed to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. These initial actions, which are expected to result in workforce reductions of approximately 17%, primarily reflect the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. In July 2011, the Company initiated further actions under the Merger Restructuring Program through which the Company expects to reduce its workforce measured at the time of the Merger by an additional 12% to 13% across the Company worldwide. A majority of the workforce reductions associated with these additional actions relate to manufacturing (including 
 
19 

Table of Contents
Animal Health), administrative and headquarters organizations. Since inception of the Merger Restructuring Program through December 31, 2012, Merck has eliminated approximately 22,400 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. 
In October 2008, Merck announced a global restructuring program (the “2008 Restructuring Program”) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions — 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies — across the Company worldwide. Since inception of the 2008 Restructuring Program through December 31, 2012, Merck has eliminated approximately 6,400 positions comprised of employee separations and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. 
Environmental Matters 
The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $14 million in 2012, $25 million in 2011 and $16 million in 2010, and are estimated at $84 million in the aggregate for the years 2013 through 2017. These amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled $145 million at December 31, 2012. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $112 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. 
Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. Some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company’s facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. These potential risks are integrated into the Company’s business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The Company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. 
Geographic Area Information 
The Company’s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States were 57% of sales in 2012, 57% of sales in 2011 and 56% of sales in 2010. 
The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. 
Merck has expanded its operations in countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. 
Financial information about geographic areas of the Company’s business is discussed in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below. 
Available Information 
The Company’s Internet website address is www.merck.com. The Company will make available, free of charge at the “Investors” portion of its website, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 
 
20 

Table of Contents
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 
The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of Directors’ four standing committees are available on the Company’s website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the Company. 
