
Item 1. Business.
Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A); Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies; and Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment Information. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms the "Company," "P&G," "we," "our" or "us" as used herein refer to The Procter & Gamble Company (the registrant) and its subsidiaries.
The Procter & Gamble Company is focused on providing branded consumer packaged goods of superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world's consumers. The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1905, having been built from a business founded in 1837 by William Procter and James Gamble. Today, we market our products in more than 180 countries.
Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, are filed electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains these reports at: http://www.sec.gov. You can also access these reports through links from our website at: www.pg.com/investors.
Copies of these reports are also available, without charge, by contacting The Procter & Gamble Company, Shareholder Services Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572.
Financial Information about Segments
As of June 30, 2012, the Company is organized into two Global Business Units (GBUs): Beauty and Grooming and Household Care. We have five reportable segments under U.S. GAAP: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care. Many of the factors necessary for understanding these businesses are similar. Operating margins of the individual businesses vary due to the nature of materials and processes used to manufacture the products, the capital intensity of the businesses and differences in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales. Net sales growth by business is also expected to vary slightly due to the underlying growth of the markets and product categories in which they operate. While none of our reportable segments are highly seasonal, components within certain reportable segments, such as Batteries (Fabric Care and Home Care), Appliances (Grooming) and Prestige Fragrances (Beauty) are seasonal. In addition, anticipation or occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, can drive 
 
unusually high demand for batteries.
Additional information about our reportable segments can be found in MD&A and Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment Information.
Narrative Description of Business
Business Model. Our business model relies on the continued growth and success of existing brands and products, as well as the creation of new products. The markets and industry segments in which we offer our products are highly competitive. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries around the world primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores, department stores, salons and in high-frequency stores, the neighborhood stores which serve many consumers in developing markets. We work collaboratively with our customers to improve the in-store presence of our products and win the "first moment of truth" - when a consumer is shopping in the store. We must also win the "second moment of truth" - when a consumer uses the product, evaluates how well it met his or her expectations and decides whether it was a good value. We believe we must continue to provide new, innovative products and branding to the consumer in order to grow our business. Research and product development activities, designed to enable sustained organic growth, continued to carry a high priority during the past fiscal year. While many of the benefits from these efforts will not be realized until future years, we believe these activities demonstrate our commitment to future growth.
Key Product Categories. Information on key product categories can be found in Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment Information.
Key Customers. Our customers include mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores and high-frequency stores. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately 14%, 15% and 16% of our total revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. No other customer represents more than 10% of our net sales. Our top ten customers account for approximately 31% of our total unit volume in 2012, and 32% of our total unit volume in 2011 and 2010. The nature of our business results in no material backlog orders or contracts with the government. We believe our practices related to working capital items for customers and suppliers are consistent with the industry segments in which we compete.
Sources and Availability of Materials. Almost all of the raw and packaging materials used by the Company are purchased from others, some of whom are single-source suppliers. We produce raw materials, primarily chemicals, for further use in the manufacturing process. In addition, fuel, natural gas and derivative products are important commodities consumed in our manufacturing process and in 


3 The Procter & Gamble Company

the distribution of input materials and finished product to customers. The prices we pay for materials and other commodities are subject to fluctuation. When prices for these items change, we may or may not pass the change to our customers, depending on the magnitude and expected duration of the change. The Company purchases a substantial variety of other raw and packaging materials, none of which is material to our business taken as a whole.
Trademarks and Patents. We own or have licenses under patents and registered trademarks which are used in connection with our activity in all businesses. Some of these patents or licenses cover significant product formulation and processes used to manufacture our products. The trademarks are important to the overall marketing and branding of our products. All major products and trademarks in each business are registered. In part, our success can be attributed to the existence and continued protection of these trademarks, patents and licenses.
Competitive Condition. The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive. Our products compete against similar products of many large and small companies, including well-known global competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against other branded products as well as retailers' private-label brands. We are well positioned in the industry segments and markets in which we operate -often holding a leadership or significant market share position. We support our products with advertising, promotions and other vehicles to build awareness of our brands in conjunction with an extensive sales force. We believe this combination provides the most efficient method of marketing for these types of products. Product quality, performance, value and packaging are also important competitive factors.
Research and Development Expenditures. Research and development expenditures enable us to develop technologies and obtain patents across all categories in order to meet the needs and improve the lives of our consumers. Total research and development expenses were $2.0 billion in 2012 and 2011, and $1.9 billion in 2010.
 
Expenditures for Environmental Compliance. Expenditures for compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations are fairly consistent from year to year and are not material to the Company. No material change is expected in fiscal year 2013.
Employees. Total number of employees is an estimate of total Company employees excluding interns, co-ops and employees of joint ventures. Historical numbers include employees of discontinued operations.
 
 

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations
Net sales in the United States account for approximately 35% of total net sales. No other individual country exceeded 10% of total net sales. Operations outside the United States are generally characterized by the same conditions discussed in the description of the business above and may be affected by additional factors including changing currency values, different rates of inflation, economic growth and political and economic uncertainties and disruptions. Our sales by geography for the fiscal years ended June 30 were as follows:


Net sales and assets in the United States and internationally were as follows (in billions):

